<doc id="1004187" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1004187" title="Stade Rennais F.C.">
Stade Rennais F.C.

Football club in Rennes, France
Football club
Stade Rennais Football Club (), commonly referred to as Stade Rennais (), Rennes, or simply SRFC, is a French professional football club based in Rennes, Brittany. It competes in Ligue 1, the top tier of French football, and plays its home matches at the Roazhon Park. The team's president is Olivier Cloarec, and its owner is Artémis, the holding company of businessman François Pinault.
Rennes was founded in 1901 under the name Stade Rennais and is one of the founding members of the first division of French football. Alongside Nantes, Rennes is one of the top football clubs in the region and the two are among the main clubs that contest the Derby Breton. The club's best finish in the league has been third, accomplishing this feat after the season was ended prematurely in 2019–20. Rennes has won three Coupe de France titles in 1965, 1971 and 2019. After winning the Coupe de France in 1971, Rennes changed its name to its current version, but the club's home colours have been the same since its inception, which are red, black, and white.
Rennes is known for its youth academy, known in English as the Henri Guérin Training Centre, which was formed in 2000. In 2010, the French Football Federation (FFF) recognised Rennes as having the best youth academy in the country. The cornerstone of the academy is the under-19 team, which has won the Coupe Gambardella three times in 1973, 2003 and 2008. The academy has produced several notable talents, such as Ousmane Dembélé, Yacine Brahimi, Eduardo Camavinga, Yoann Gourcuff, Yann M'Vila, Moussa Sow, Abdoulaye Doucouré, Sylvain Wiltord, Jimmy Briand and Mathys Tel.
History.
Stade Rennais Football Club was founded on 10 March 1901 by a group of former students living in Brittany. Football had quickly become widely circulated in nearby regions and it was soon brought to Brittany. The club's first match was played two weeks later against FC Rennais, which Stade lost 6–0. 
In 1902, Stade Rennais joined the USFSA federation and, subsequently, became a founding member of the Ligue de Bretagne de football, a newly created regional league founded by the federation. In the second league season, the club won the competition after defeating the inaugural league winners FC Rennais 4–0 in the final. 
On 4 May 1904, Stade Rennais merged with its rivals FC Rennais to form Stade Rennais Université Club, with the primary objective being to overcome the recent domination of the Ligue de Bretagne by US Saint-Malo, then known as US Saint-Servan, which fielded mostly British players. The new club adopted the colours of Rennais, which consisted of a red and black combination with black vertical stripes on the shirt. After three years of Saint-Malo dominating the league, Rennes finally eclipsed the club in 1908 under the leadership of Welsh manager Arthur Griffith. In the following season, Rennes won the league again, but in 1910 Rennes was unable to win a third, as Saint-Malo won the league by two points. The champions subsequently went on an impressive run in which it won the league for the next four seasons over.
After World War I, Rennes began focusing its efforts on winning the recently created Coupe de France. Strengthened by the arrivals of internationals Bernard Lenoble, Maurice Gastiger, Ernest Molles and captain François Hugues after the war, in the competition's fourth campaign, Rennes reached the final. In the match, the club faced two-time defending champions Red Star Olympique, which was led by attacker Paul Nicolas, defender Lucien Gamblin and goalkeeper Pierre Chayriguès. Red Star opened the scoring in the fourth minute and the match was concluded following a late goal from Raymond Sentubéry. After the disorganisation of the USFSA in 1913, Rennes joined the Ligue de l'Ouest. In 1929, Rennes departed the league after disagreeing with the increased number of games the league sought to implement in the new season. The departure led to Rennes becoming a "free agent", and the club played numerous friendly matches to compensate for the loss of league matches.
In July 1930, the National Council of the French Football Federation (FFF) voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. Under the leadership of club president Isidore Odorico, Rennes was among the first clubs to adopt the new statute and, subsequently, became professional and became founding members of the new league. In the league's inaugural season, Rennes finished mid-table in its group. Two years later, in 1935, the club reached the Coupe de France final for the second time. Rennes, however, lost to Marseille 3–0 after failing to overcome three first-half goals. The club's attack was also limited in the match due to being deprived of its top two attackers, Walter Kaiser and Walter Vollweiler, who were both injured. Rennes spent four more years in the first division before suffering relegation to Division 2 in the 1936–37 season. Rennes played in Division 2 before professionalism was abolished due to World War II. After the war, Rennes returned to Division 1. Led by the Austrian-born Frenchman Franz Pleyer, Rennes achieved its best finish in the league after finishing fourth in the 1948–49 campaign. Despite the domestic resurgence under Pleyer, the club struggled to maintain consistency and, in the 1950s, rotated between the first division and the second division under the watch of the Spaniard Salvador Artigas and Henri Guérin, who acted in a player-coach role.
Under the leadership of new president Louis Girard, Rennes underwent a major upheaval, which included renovations to the stadium. Girard sought to make Rennes competitive nationally and the first objective was achieved when the club earned promotion back to Division 1 in 1958. After finishing in the bottom-half of the table for six-straight seasons, Rennes, now managed by former club player Jean Prouff, finished in fourth place in the 1964–65 season. In the same season, the club earned its first major honour after winning the Coupe de France. Rennes, led by players such as Daniel Rodighiéro, Georges Lamia and Jean-Claude Lavaud defeated UA Sedan-Torcy 3–1 in the replay of the final. The first leg of the match ended 2–2, which resulted in a replay. After the cup success, Rennes played in European competition for the first time in the 1965–66 season, participating in the European Cup Winner's Cup. The club, however, lost to Czechoslovakian club Dukla Prague in the first round.
In the ensuing years, Rennes struggled in league play but performed well in the Coupe de France, reaching the semi-finals on two occasions in 1967 and 1970. In 1971, Rennes captured its second Coupe de France title after defeating Lyon 1–0 in the final, with the only goal coming from the penalty spot scored by André Guy. 
On 23 May 1972, Rennes officially changed its name to its current form, Stade Rennais Football Club. After another season in charge, Prouff departed Rennes and the club entered free-fall. From 1972 to 1994, Rennes was supervised by 11 different managers and, during the years, constantly hovered between Division 1 and Division 2. In 1978, the club was on the verge of bankruptcy and, as a result, was ordered by a tribunal to sell its biggest earners and enter a policy of austerity. In the 1980s, the city's municipality gained a majority stake in the club.
In 1994, Rennes returned to Division 1 and entered a period of stability mainly due to the utilisation of the club's youth academy. Instead of entering bidding wars for players, Rennes groomed its youngsters and inserted them onto the senior team when coaches felt they were ready. This strategy proved successful with players such as Sylvain Wiltord, Jocelyn Gourvennec, and Ulrich Le Pen. In 1998, the club was sold by the municipality to retail magnate François Pinault. Pinault invested a substantial amount of funding into the club and sought to increase Rennes' production of youth talent by constructing a training centre, which was completed in 2000. Pinault also paid for a completed re-construction of the stadium and also invested in the transfer market, recruiting several players from South America, most notably Brazilian forward Lucas Severino, whom Rennes paid a record €21 million for in 2000.
The results were immediate in the decade from 2000 to 2010, with Rennes appearing in UEFA-sanctioned European competitions in five of the ten seasons. In youth production, the club produced several youth talents such as Yann M'Vila, Yacine Brahimi, Jimmy Briand and Abdoulaye Diallo, among others. In league competition, Rennes tied its best finish ever in the league by finishing fourth in 2004–05. Two seasons later, the club accomplished this feat again. In 2009, Rennes reached the Coupe de France final for the fourth time in its history. In the final, Rennes faced Breton rival Guingamp and was the heavy favourite. Despite taking the lead in the second half, however, Rennes was defeated 2–1 after Guingamp scored two goals in a ten-minute span. In 2014, Rennes made the Coupe de France final and once again their opponent was Guingamp. In a tense final, Rennes lost the match to their fierce rivals 2–0. In the 2017–18 Ligue 1 season, Rennes had one of their best campaigns in recent memory, finishing 5th and qualifying to the UEFA Europa League for the 2018–19 season. 
In the following season, the 2018–19 season, Rennes had irregular form in the league, finishing tenth, but claimed its third Coupe de France win on 27 April, rallying back from two goals down to beat Paris Saint-Germain 6–5 on penalties in the final. The French Cup winners for the last four years were heavy favourites to beat Rennes having already been crowned Ligue 1 champions for the 2018–19 season on 21 April. The club also had a great Europa League campaign, where they reached the round of 16 after finishing second in the group stage. In the round of 32, they beat Real Betis 6–4 on aggregate, and in the round of 16, they were matched up with Arsenal. In the first leg on 7 March, Rennes recorded a historic 3–1 victory at home. In the second leg however, eventual finalists Arsenal won 3–0 in London and eliminated the French club.
In the 2019–20 season, Rennes finished third in Ligue 1 and qualified for 2020–21 UEFA Champions League for the first time in their history.
Stadium.
Rennes has played on the land where the club's stadium, the Roazhon Park, situates itself since 1912. The Roazhon Park, then named Stade de Route de Lorient, which is its address, was constructed in 1912. The facility was inaugurated on 15 September 1912 in a match between Rennes and SA du Lycée de Rennes. The Stade de la Route de Lorient was officially inaugurated a month later when Rennes took on Racing Club de France in front of 3,000 spectators.
The Roazhon Park is owned by the city of Rennes and has undergone renovations three times, in 1955, 1983 and 1999. In 1983, the club renovated the stadium in an attempt to resemble the Olympiastadion in Munich. After nearly four years of renovation, the new stadium was unveiled on 7 March 1987. In 1999, the new renovations, which were designed by architect Bruno Gaudin, cost €37.3 million and took four years to complete. The stadium's inauguration was celebrated twice: in a match between France and Bosnia and Herzegovina in August 2004, and another football match contesting by Rennes and Metz two months later. The current capacity of the stadium is 29,778.
Training centre.
The Centre d'entraînement Henri-Guérin (Henri-Guérin Training Center), colloquially known as "La Piverdière", was inaugurated in June 2000. Named for former club player and manager Henri Guérin, "La Piverdière" is located on the outskirts of Rennes just southwest of Roazhon Park. The centre hosts the senior team's training sessions, as well as the club's reserve and youth teams. In 2007, "La Piverdière" became the home of the club's administrative and business headquarters.
Since its inception, "La Piverdière" has become reputed for its consistent production of youth talent, bringing through players that have become household names at the international level. In that time, the club's youth system has made up most of the club's first team. Current first-team players Eduardo Camavinga and Joris Gnagnon were graduates of the academy. Rennes has been awarded the honour of having the best youth academy in France.
Rennes has won the Coupe Gambardella, the under-19 national youth competition, three times, in 1973, 2003 and 2008. In 2003, the team that won was anchored by Yoann Gourcuff and Marveaux. Gourcuff went on to win both the UNFP Player of the Year and French Player of the Year awards and established himself as a French international. Marveaux graduated from the academy after the Gambardella triumph and went on to appear in over 100 matches for Rennes. He had his best season in the 2009–10 season, appearing in 38 matches and scoring 12 goals. In 2008, the team that won the competition was composed of Brahimi, M'Vila, Souprayen, Yohann Lasimant, Quentin Rouger, Kévin Théophile-Catherine, and Damien Le Tallec. Six of the seven players made appearances with the first-team. Le Tallec moved to German club Borussia Dortmund before he could make an appearance.
Supporters.
Rennes have several supporter groups associated with the club, ranging from groups of senior supporters to "ultras". The oldest, most structured and frequented is Allez Rennes. The group was founded in 1962 and together with "Les Socios", founded in 1992, is the largest group of traditional supporters.
The section of the stadium popularly called "Tribune Mordelles" is occupied by the Roazhon Celtic Kop (RCK). Although the group was founded in 1991, its roots date back to 1987 when a group of supporters known as Ultras Roazhon was formed. The RCK was formed by three young supporters who decided to establish the Mordelles stand as the true hot spot of the stadium. The group marks its presence not only through continuous singing and the use of flares, but also through numerous tifos and choreographic celebrations. The Breton identity is regularly displayed and the use of Celtic symbols is frequent. A special feat of the RCK is that the group is responsible for having made the largest Gwenn-ha-du in history measuring 270 square metres. It was displayed at the Mordelles stand during the 1994–95 season.
The RCK functions as an unconditional supporters' group present at all matches, including those at European level, and gathers supporters mainly of the "ultra"-mentality, but also holds on to its values describe by the group as "Amitié, Respect et Fête" ("Friendship, Respect and Party"). The Kop keeps an open attitude towards those supporters of Rennes who share them. The group has taken a strong position against "football business", the suppression of the "ultra"-movement and racism. Although the group is not officially political, it regularly manifests anti-fascism. The RCK is a member of the RSRA (Réseau Supporter de Résistance Antiraciste), a French network of football supporter groups against racism, and involved in Fare, a European network of football supporter groups against racism and discrimination.
Another major supporter group of the club is the Section Roazhon Pariz. It is a section of the RCK that is situated in Paris. The group supports the team at important away matches, such as those against Lyon and Paris Saint-Germain. The RCK makes no attempt to hide its chaotic and festive appearance. In 2003, a second group of ultras, the Breizh Stourmer ("Breton Warriors") was formed through a break with the RCK. The group was created around the idea of a small, strong core of supporters and chose to situate themselves on the opposite side of the RCK. The Breizh Stourmer has been accused by elements of the RCK for certain members holding extreme-right views. Violent clashes between radical members of the two groups have occurred. The main rival of the RCK has, however, not been the Breizh Stourmer, but for many years, the Brigade Loire, a supporters' group of Rennes' rival club Nantes. The Breizh Stourmer has since dissolved. In 2008, a new group of supporters, the Unvez Kelt (UK) ("Celtic Unity"), was founded. The group was initially refused by the club as an official group, however, with the help of Les Socios, it was finally accepted. Failing to establish itself and after several problems, among them a fire that destroyed its premises in November 2010, clashes with the National Police and incidents resulting in several of its members becoming arrested during an away match at Auxerre in 2012, the Unvez Kelt decided to dissolve in 2012.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former and current players who have represented Rennes in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1901.
"For a complete list of former Stade Rennais F.C. players with a Wikipedia article, see ."
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
Management and coaching.
Coaching history.
"Coaches since 1906 and later to the accession to professional status in 1932, with the exception of 1939–1941, where the Stade Rennais reverted to amateur status, and 1942–1944, where no coach was appointed by the board, and 1945 where the club didn't compete in any competition."
Notes.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;
&lt;templatestyles src="Refbegin/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1075697" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1075697" title="RC Lens">
RC Lens

French association football club
Football club
Racing Club de Lens (), commonly referred to as RC Lens or simply Lens, is a French professional football club based in the northern city of Lens in the department of Pas-de-Calais. The club's nickname, "Les Sang et Or" (transl. The Blood and Gold), comes from its traditional colours of red and gold. As of the 2023–24 season, Lens competes in Ligue 1, the highest tier of French football.
Lens won the Division 1 (now Ligue 1) title in the 1997–98 season, and has finished as runner-up on five occasions, most recently in the 2022–23 season, losing out to Paris-Saint Germain by 1 point. The club has a strong rivalry with neighbors Lille, with whom they contest the "Derby du Nord".
History.
Origin of the club.
The club was established in 1906 in Lens by local students who enjoyed playing football on the city's Place Verte (the current Place de la République). The name "Racing Club de Lens" was chosen as a reference to Racing Club de Roubaix and Racing Club de France, both popular clubs at the time.
The club's first board of directors was formed by the parents of those students. The club originally played in green and black to represent the founding location; they wore green to represent the name of the home pitch, "Verte", (meaning 'green' in French), and black to represent the omnipresence of the coal mining industry in the surrounding area.
Between 1907 and 1912, the players were forced to change home grounds twice before settling at the Parc des Glissoires, situated between Avion and Lens.
During World War I, in common with all French sports clubs, the team's activities were stopped and did not restart until 1919. By this time, Lens had changed their playing colours to sky blue.
Of blood and gold.
It was in 1924 that the red and gold colours first appeared. One legend says that Pierre Moglia, president of the club from 1923 to 1930, chose the colours of the Spanish flag after a colleague from the club remarked that the Saint-Léger church ruins, which they had walked past one evening, were the last visible remains of the local Spanish domination in 1648. Some people also say that the colours were derived as a reference to the local coal mines: the red for the blood of the miners and the gold for the coal which was valuable at the time.
It was also in 1924 that the club was authorised to play at the newly built municipal stadium Raoul Briquet (nowadays Léo Lagrange). The first match for the club in their new colours was played for the inauguration of the stadium.
In 1926, British footballer Kid Fenton was the first star who played for Lens. He stayed for eight seasons and became a strong favourite with the club's supporters. This was also the year the first supporters group was formed, and also saw the first occasion that Lens captured the Championnat d'Artois.
In 1929, Lens won the North championship and won promotion for the first time to the Division d'Honneur of the Ligue du Nord with the clubs Olympique Lillois, RC Roubaix, Excelsior Athlétic Club de Roubaix and AC Amiens.
In the Artois League, the club steadily gained prestige, and in 1932 the club inaugurated the Stade Félix Bollaert.
The first victories.
In 1937, Lens gained access to the first division after finishing first in the second division, led by such players as Stefan Dembicki and Spechtl. Lens even managed to reach the last 16 of the Coupe de France, although the team was eventually eliminated by the Red Star, 3–2.
In 1943, Lens won the first division of the Northern Zone thanks to Dembicki, who scored 43 goals in 30 games. A year earlier, in a Coupe de France match, he had scored 17 goals, which still remains to this day the world record for goals scored by one player in a single competitive match.
Immediately following World War II, Lens finished in sixth place in the 1945–46 season, but they were relegated the following year. In 1948, the club played its first Coupe de France final, which they lost 3–2 against Lille. A year later, Lens was promoted to the first division, and Maryan Wisnieski was recruited, in 1953. Problems with the board, however, made him quit the club; he joined Italian club UC Sampdoria Genoa, though without much success.
In 1962, the city of Lens' mines were shut down and the future of the club was at stake, given that most of the players were miners by profession. Between 1956 and 1968, survival was hard. Nevertheless, in 1964, Lens finished third, with Ahmed Oudjani the top scorer with 30 goals. Another famous player, Georges Lech, joined Lens, although the club was relegated in 1968. The following year, the mine's administrators rescinded their ownership of Lens, which signalled the end of professional football at the Stade Bollaert-Delelis. Lens was now once again an amateur club, one year after its relegation, and the long-term future looked very bleak.
The good years and the fall.
However, better days arrived in 1960 after the town council took interest in Racing Club de Lens. Lens' mayor, André Delelis, was a long-term supporter and recognized the importance of the club's success to the overall morale of the city. With the future president, Jean Bondoux, the mayor brought together volunteers and subscriptions to help the club survive. Moreover, the city recovered ownership of the stadium from the closing mine industry.
The following twenty years saw a slow but steady improvement in the club's fortunes. In 1972, Lens reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France, and the arrival of two Polish players helped the club win promotion to the first division. In 1975, Lens once again reached the final of the Coupe de France against the powerful Saint-Étienne, but lost the game 0–2.
As finalist of the Coupe de France, Lens had the opportunity to participate in its first UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, but the team was knocked out quickly by the Dutch club ADO Den Haag.
Lens' steady progress continued, and after finishing second in the league behind Nantes, they managed to qualify to the UEFA Cup. They knocked out Swedish club Malmö FF, and more impressively, the strong Italian club Lazio. After an away defeat (2–0), they won 6–0 at the Stade Bollaert-Delelis after extra-time. Unfortunately, after this rare international exploit for a French club, they were then eliminated by East German side 1. FC Magdeburg. Worse still, the club went back to the second division in 1978.
The step backwards was very brief and immediate promotion back to the French elite level was achieved in 1979 with Roger Lemerre as head coach. During the 1980s, Gérard Houllier and Joachim Marx succeeded him. These were great gains to the team, even though the club lost important players such as Didier Sénac, Gaëtan Huard and Philippe Vercruysse.
Martel's takeover.
In August 1988 Gervais Martel, a wealthy local businessman, bought control of the club, with the help of Serge Doré. During the same year, Arnaud Dos Santos was named head coach of the club, and led the club back to the first division in 1991.
In 1993 and 1994, Lens' strongest team to that date were highly competitive at the top of the league, and the team qualified for the UEFA Cup twice in a row. Lens also reached the semi-final of the Coupe de France after knocking out Paris Saint-Germain at the Parc des Princes, although the team lost to Montpellier.
In 1998, "les Sang et Or" wrote the best page of their history under Daniel Leclercq ("the Druid"): French champions, Coupe de la Ligue semi-finalists and finalists of the Coupe de France (against PSG, a 2–1 defeat). Like a symbol, it is a player who started his career in Lens, Yohan Lachor, who scored the goal in Auxerre giving Lens the title in front of Metz. Under the "Druid", Lens won its second major title in 1999 with the Coupe de la Ligue against Metz, with a goal from Daniel Moreira. That year, in the UEFA Champions League, Lens also became the only club to have beaten English team Arsenal at the famous Wembley Stadium (1–0, with a goal from Mickaël Debève), although they were knocked out on aggregate score over two matches.
During the next season, Leclercq was fired, but Lens nonetheless did well to reach the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup. François Brisson's men were eventually eliminated by Arsenal, after they won against 1. FC Kaiserslautern (a 4–1 win in Germany), Atlético Madrid and Celta de Vigo.
In the 2001–02 season, Joël Muller was named head coach. Lens finished second that season and qualified for its second Champions League campaign. The club, however, finished in eighth for the next two years. Muller was replaced during his fourth season by Francis Gillot, who managed to qualify Lens for the UEFA Intertoto Cup, which Lens won, ensuring qualification for the UEFA Cup.
During the 2006–07 season, the "Sang et Or" finished the first part of the season in second, behind Lyon. But due to a chaotic second half, however, they only finished fifth. A few days later, Francis Gillot resigned.
On 5 June 2007, Guy Roux made his comeback, although it only lasted three months: He resigned after a 2–1 defeat at Strasbourg. Jean-Pierre Papin took over, but Lens could not make up any ground throughout the season, finishing 18th, two points behind Toulouse, resulting in relegation to Ligue 2 for the next season. Lens finished the season with just 40 points, winning only 9 times in 38 matches.
After a slow start in their only year in Ligue 2, they managed to finish as leaders during the first half of the season. Earning 13 out of 15 points in their first five games of the second half, everything looked set for a quick return to the first league. After only taking five points of the next six games, however, the promotion race was open again, although Lens recovered and became champions, securing promotion to Ligue 1 for 2009–10. After the 2010–11 season, however, they again dropped to Ligue 2.
On 16 May 2014, Lens sealed promotion back to Ligue 1 on the final day of the season following a 2–0 win at Bastia. On 27 June, however, the League's National Directorate of Management Control (DNCG) blocked Lens' promotion to the top flight due to irregularities in the club's proposed budget for its next season. The issue was a €10 million payment due from major shareholder Hafiz Mammadov that was missing from the accounts. Lens president Gervais Martel claimed a public holiday in Mammadov's native Azerbaijan had resulted in the delay and said the club would appeal. On 15 July, however, their promotion was in jeopardy after an appeal commission upheld their appeal since the missing funds still had not yet arrived in the club's accounts. Lens immediately declared their intention to appeal to the French Olympic Committee (CNOSF), which has the power to overrule the DNCG. On 25 July, the CNSOF recommended Lens should be allowed to play in Ligue 1. Because the Stade Bollaert-Delelis was being renovated for UEFA Euro 2016, Lens played their home matches for the 2014–15 Ligue 1 season at the Stade de la Licorne, home of Amiens, and at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis.
It was announced on 29 January 2015 that Lens' promotion from Ligue 2 at the end of the 2013–14 season has been ruled invalid, and will thus be automatically relegated to Ligue 2 for the 2015–16 season, regardless of where the team places. Thus, in August 2015 Lens returned to Ligue 2, albeit playing at the renovated Stade Bollaert-Delelis. They drew an average home attendance of 28,996 in the 2016–17 season, the highest in Ligue 2 but missed promotion to the Ligue 1 during a tumultuous last day of the season.
New direction and return to Ligue 1.
In the 2017–18 Ligue 2 season, Lens lost their first seven matches in a row, the worst start to a season in the club's history. On 18 September, Lens finally got their first win of the season over US Quevilly-Rouen 2–0.
In the 2018–19 Ligue 2 season, Lens finished 5th on the table and reached the promotion play off final against Dijon FCO. After a 1–1 draw in the first leg, Lens would lose the second leg and the tie 3–1 after two goalkeeping blunders by Jérémy Vachoux cost his side a chance of promotion to Ligue 1.
On 30 April 2020, Lens were promoted to Ligue 1 after the LFP decided to end the seasons of both Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 early due to the COVID-19 pandemic in France. Lens were second on the table in Ligue 2 at the time of the decision.
In the 2020–21 season, Lens finished 7th on the Ligue 1 table after an impressive first season back in France's top flight. They finished seventh again in the following season with 62 points, despite being ranked second behind Paris Saint-Germain in the first half of the season.
In the 2022–23 season, Lens won 10 games out of 10 at home during the first part of the season. On 1 January 2023, Lens beat PSG 3–1 and became the first team to defeat Paris, which had been unbeaten since the start of the season. Halfway through the season, Lens was second, three points behind PSG. On 1 March 2023, Lens was eliminated from the Coupe de France after a 2–1 defeat against Nantes in the quarter-finals. On 27 May, Lens won 3–0 against Ajaccio, finished 2nd in Ligue 1 and qualified for the Champions League for the third time in their history after 1998–99 and 2002–03.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
First-team squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Reserve squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Retired numbers.
12 – Club Supporters (the 12th Man)&lt;br&gt;
17 – Marc-Vivien Foé, Midfielder (1994–99) – "posthumous honour"
Former players.
Three Lens players won the gold medal in the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games: defender Didier Sénac, as well as strikers François Brisson and Daniel Xuereb who scored a goal apiece in France's triumph over Brazil 2–0 in the final at the Pasadena Rose Bowl in front of a crowd of 103,000.
For a complete list of RC Lens players, see 
French internationals.
As of 17 July 2023
 "As of 25 February 2020"
Coaches.
Former coaches include two ex-France coaches: Gérard Houllier (1982–85) managed France between July 1992 and November 1993, and Roger Lemerre (second half of the 1996–97 season, then as assistant coach 1997–98), who coached France between July 1998 and July 2002.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="11133939" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11133939" title="Angoulême Charente FC">
Angoulême Charente FC

Football club based in Angoulême, France
Football club
Angoulême Charente Football Club, commonly known as Angoulême, is a French football club from the city of Angoulême, currently playing in Championnat National 2. Founded in 1920 as SC Angoulême, the club is well known as AS Angoulême, a name the club bore from 1948 to 1992. In 2005, they rebranded as Angoulême Charente FC.
History.
The club was founded in 1920. In 1969, Angoulême was promoted to the French Division 1. In their first season in the elite, the club finished in a surprising fourth place in the 1969–70 season. Due to their high placement, Angoulême were invited to compete in the 1970–71 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup. Their opponent in the tournament was Portuguese side Vitória S.C. Angoulême lost the first game 3-0 away, and won 3-1 at home, suffering elimination. Next season, the club finished in 16th place, avoiding relegation by a single point. In the 1971–72 season, Angoulême finished in last place, suffering relegation to Division 2. Angoulême never returned to the top tier of French football, and currently competes in the fourth level of French football.
 "As of 21 February 2019"
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1135276" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1135276" title="FC Nantes">
FC Nantes

Association football club in France
Football club
Football Club de Nantes (; Gallo: "Naunnt"), commonly referred to as FC Nantes or simply Nantes (), is a French professional football club based in Nantes in Pays de la Loire. The club was founded on 21 April 1943, during World War II, as a result of local clubs based in the city coming together to form one large club. From 1992 to 2007, the club was referred to as FC Nantes Atlantique before reverting to its current name at the start of the 2007–08 season. Nantes play in Ligue 1, the first division of Football in France.
Nantes is one of the most successful clubs in French football, having won eight Ligue 1 titles, four Coupe de France wins and attained one Coupe de la Ligue victory.
The club is famous for its "jeu à la nantaise" (lit. 'Nantes-style play'), its collective spirit, mainly advocated under coaches José Arribas, Jean-Claude Suaudeau and Raynald Denoueix and for its youth system, which has produced players such as Marcel Desailly, Didier Deschamps, Mickaël Landreau, Claude Makélélé, Christian Karembeu and Jérémy Toulalan. As well as "Les Canaris" ('The Canaries'), Nantes is also nicknamed "Les jaunes et verts" ('The Green and Yellows') and "La Maison Jaune" ('The Yellow House').
History.
Foundation.
The club was founded in 1943. The first match played by Nantes as a professional team took place at the Stade Olympique de Colombes against CA Paris, where Nantes triumphed 2–0. The first home match was a defeat of the same score against Troyes. The club finished fifth at the end of this first season following which the club's manager Aimé Nuic left the club following a dispute, and was succeeded by Antoine Raab, who took over in a player-coach role. After winning 16 consecutive matches, Nantes lost 9–0 to Sochaux.
The club became a professional football club in 1945 after winning the Western Region championship, and started that season in the second division. Under historic president , it spent a few years as a mid-table club in that division, with even threat of relegation in 1950, avoided on the last game only.
The 1950s.
Results improved from 1951 onwards, and the club just missed out on promotion in 1952, finishing 4th, under respected coach . His successor was able to recruit more prestigious players, including Dutch stars Gerrit Vreken and Jan van Geen, but despite this, the club stagnated again. A number of coaches followed, but the club did not progress, and promising early starts to seasons often petered out by their ends.
In 1960, president Marcel Saupin selected the young and promising amateur coach José Arribas. He was credited with revolutionising the team's game, insisting on team-based, less individual play, and an attack-oriented game. He set up a 4-2-4 instead of the then traditional 4 banks of players. His system showed promise but results were not forthcoming right away: placings read 11th, 6th in his first 2 seasons, and finally 2nd in 1962, having led the second division for the first half of the season. In that time, the club took part in the short-lived Anglo-French-Scottish cup, losing 71 to Liverpool FC.
Life in the top division - the José Arribas years (1963 to 1976).
José Arribas and Nantes found their place in the top division right away and finished 8th in their first season. The following season was even better: the club becomes French champions, and their star striker was the league's top goalscorer and became the first Nantes player to earn an international cap. The club also won the French League Cup.
In 1965, the club confirmed its place at the top and won the league again. Best defence (36 goals conceded), best attack (84 goals scored), Philippe Gondet ended the season as the league's top goalscorer with 36 goals in 37 games. French success did not lead to European success however, and Nantes lost their first-round European Cup game to Partizan Belgrade, who went on to reach the final. At the end of that season, three Nantes players (, Gondet and Budzynski) wre part of the French team playing the World Cup in England.
The late 60s and early 70s were not stellar years for the club, typically ending between the 10th and 7th place in the league. They made the French Cup final in 1970 but were routed by Saint-Etienne 5-0. Coach José Arribas's place was not under threat however, being very popular with players and fans alike. In parallel, the club worked hard behind the scene to modernise its structures and to develop its recruitment and player academy. Ex-players Jean-Claude Suaudeau and Robert Budzynski joined the coaching and recruitment team, and were tasked with deploying the club's playing philosophy at all levels of the club's teams. Young players such as Patrice Rio, allied with experienced Argentinians Ángel Marcos and Hugo Bargas, as well as Bayern Munich star Erich Maas enabled the club to turn its fortunes around and win the league in 1973. They also made the French Cup final but lost to Lyon. 
The club however could not break its European jinx: Danish amateur club Vejle eliminated Nantes in the first round of the European Cup. Results in the French league are good, although below that of high-flying club AS Saint-Etienne, but European results disappointed, year after year. In 1976, the club and José Arribas finally decided to part ways after 13 years together. 
Jean Vincent and Jean-Claude Suaudeau (1976 to 1988).
New coach Jean Vincent was tasked with bringing more success in cups, both domestic and European. He started by reshuffling the team, putting aside a few stars and starting young academy players such as Loic Amisse, Eric Pécout and Bruno Baronchelli. The team still used a very watchable system of play and won the league in 1977, for the fourth time in its history. In 1978, the team finished second behind Monaco but European disappointments continued. That year, the club opened its start-of-the-art training complex (since renamed José Arribas Sporting Centre), the most advanced in France at the time.
In 1979, Jean-Claude Suaudeau was promoted to assistant manager, and this association saw the club thrive, winning its first French Cup in 1979, while finishing 2nd in the league. And finally in Europe, the club enjoyed some success, reaching the semi-finals of the Cup Winners Cup competition where they lost to Spanish club Valencia. With Argentinian star player Enzo Trossero, and young up-and-coming academy players José Touré and William Ayache, the club remained 92 games unbeaten at home.
Jean Vincent left the club in 1981, struggling to fit his new star striker, Yugoslav Vahid Halilhodzic, into Nantes system of play. Suaudeau took the reins by himself. He benefited from a star-studded defense, with French international goalkeeper Jean-Paul Bertrand-Demanes, centre-backs Patrice Rio and Maxime Bossis, and full backs Michel Bibard, Thierry Tusseau and William Ayache; Bruno Baronchelli still pulls the strings in midfield, helped by academy youngster Seth Adonkor protecting the defence; winger Loic Amisse enjoyed a purple patch in his twilight years; strikers José Touré (nicknamed 'the Brazilian') and particularly Vahid Halilhodzic enjoyed a great partnership. In their new La Beaujoire stadium, built for the 1984 Euro competition, Nantes won the title in 1983, and missed out on the double when they lost the French Cup final to Paris Saint-Germain.
Several other French clubs then increased their budgets significantly, and Nantes could not compete. The club lost Thierry Tusseau to Bordeaux, William Ayache to PSG and Maxime Bossis to Matra Racing. Nantes were still among the premier clubs in France, attracting players such as Jorge Burruchaga (World Cup winner with Argentina in 1986), and managed to finish 6th in 1984, 2nd in 1985 and 2nd again in 1986. Other expensive recruits such as Maurice Johnston and Eddie Vercauteren did not gel and the results gradually declined. The constant influx of talented academy players such as Didier Deschamps and Marcel Desailly was not quite enough to compensate the departures and progress made by other clubs. The club finished 12th in 1987 and 10th in 1988.
Crisis and renaissance (1988 to 2004).
Suaudeau was then let go and Miroslav Blažević took his place. The club however experienced financial difficulties (and was even nearly demoted in 1992), and had to rely almost exclusively on its young academy players to survive in the top division. Eventually, Nantes became a "feeder club", selling its best young players to richer clubs: Deschamps and Yvon Le Roux to Marseille, Michel Der Zakarian to Montpellier, Antoine Kombouaré to Toulon, and Vincent Bracigliano to Nimes. 
In July 1991, the club re-appointed Suaudeau, and in July 1992, after spending a fortnight in the second division due to an administrative decision by the "DNCG" (French Football's financial regulator), FC Nantes was renamed FC Nantes Atlantique, and was able to take its place in the first division back. Working closely with youth coach Raynald Denoueix, Suaudeau reinstated the "Nantes way of play" and, despite Marcel Desailly's departure to Marseille, stabilised the team. Soon the club could again show its trademark quick game with instant passing. The academy provided players who could mix the physical with the technical, particularly those such as Christian Karembeu, Patrice Loko, Japhet N'Doram and Nicolas Ouédec. Midfield maestros Claude Makélélé and Reynald Pedros delighted crowds all over France. The team reached the French Cup final in 1993 (losing to PSG) before winning the French league in 1995. Nantes registered ten 3–0 wins at home that season. In 1995–96 Nantes reached the semi-finals of the European Cup, coming close to eliminating Juventus after a superb performance in the return leg at home.
However, Nantes continued to sell its best players, with Karembeu and Loko sold in 1995 and Ouédec, N'Doram, Makélélé, Benoît Cauet and goalkeeper David Marraud sold in the following two years. In 1997, frustrated by this, Suaudeau left the club and Denoueix took charge. The academy came to the rescue once again, and nimble, technical, players such as Stéphane Ziani, Olivier Monterrubio, Eric Carrière, Mickaël Landreau and Frédéric Da Rocha enabled the club to win two French Cups in a row (1999 and 2000) before winning the league in 2001. Denoueix's departure for Real Sociedad impacted the club somewhat, but Nantes still managed a French Cup semi-final, a League Cup final and 6th place in the league in 2004 under Ángel Marcos.
Down and out (2005 to 2013).
Nantes finished last in the league in 2007 and were relegated, triggering a pitch invasion and protests by fans. 44 consecutive seasons in the top division came to an end.
In the summer of 2007 summer the club was sold to business Waldemar Kita. While the club had only five managers between 1960 and 2000, in the decade 2000 to 2010 ten were employed and sacked. The club was promoted back to the top division in 2008, only to be relegated again the next season. Nantes then finished in 15th place in Ligue 2 under the management of three different coaches.
Back to the top (2013 to present).
Ex-player Michel Der Zakarian took the helm in 2012, leading the club to promotion from the 2012–13 Ligue 2, with 20 goals from Filip Đorđević. The team made it to the semi-finals of the 2013–14 Coupe de la Ligue, losing 2–1 at home to PSG. In April 2016, after a tense relationship, club president Waldemar Kita announced that Der Zakarian would leave at the end of the season.
René Girard was sacked after 15 games with Nantes second from bottom in December 2016, and was replaced by Sérgio Conceição. He took the team to 7th place, but left in June 2017 for FC Porto to be closer to his family.
Following brief spells by Claudio Ranieri and Miguel Cardoso, former Nantes player Vahid Halilhodžić was hired in October 2018. The following January, the club transferred Argentine striker Emiliano Sala to Premier League club Cardiff City for £15 million; he died in a light aircraft crash in the English Channel. The club reached the semi-finals of the 2018–19 Coupe de France, losing 3–0 to PSG.
After a year with Christian Gourcuff in charge and seven games under former France national team manager Raymond Domenech, 18th-placed Nantes hired Antoine Kombouaré on 10 February 2021. He finished the season in that position, before winning the play-off against Toulouse to stay up. On 7 May 2022, Nantes won their fourth Coupe de France with a 1–0 win over Nice, their first honour since 2001; Ludovic Blas scored the only goal from the penalty spot.
In the 2022–23 Ligue 1 season, Nantes avoided relegation on the final day of the campaign defeating Angers SCO 1-0 to leapfrog AJ Auxerre who went down instead.
Stadiums.
FC Nantes played at Stade Marcel Saupin from 1937 to 1984. They moved to their current home ground Stade de la Beaujoire in 1984; the stadium has a capacity of 38,128.
A new stadium dubbed 'YelloPark' was expected to be built as Nantes' home ground in 2022, but the project was abandoned on 26 February 2019 following refusal by the Nantes Metropolitan Council to sell lands needed for development of the site.
 "As of 7 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Reserve squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Nantes in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1943. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club. 
"For a complete list of FC Nantes players, see "
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
Coaches.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1135285" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1135285" title="FC Girondins de Bordeaux">
FC Girondins de Bordeaux

Association football club in Bordeaux, France
Football club
Football Club des Girondins de Bordeaux (), commonly referred to as Girondins de Bordeaux () or simply Bordeaux, is a French professional football club based in the city of Bordeaux in Gironde, Nouvelle-Aquitaine. The team currently plays in Ligue 2, the second tier of French football, and is coached by Albert Riera.
Bordeaux was founded on 1 October 1881 as a multi-sports club and is one of the most successful football clubs in France. The club has won six Division 1/Ligue 1 titles, the last in 2009. Bordeaux have also won four Coupe de France titles, three Coupe de la Ligue titles, and three Trophée des champions titles as well. Bordeaux also reached the UEFA Cup final in 1996. From a year to its inception, the club's stadium was the Stade Chaban-Delmas, though since 2015, Bordeaux's home ground has been the Matmut Atlantique.
History.
Beginnings.
The club took its name "Girondins" from the demonym for people from the region, and was founded on 1 October 1881 as a gymnastics and shooting club. The club, chaired by André Chavois, later added sports such as rowing, equestrian, and swimming, among others. It was not until 1910 when football was officially introduced to the club following strong urging from several members within the club, most notably club president Raymond Brard, though it was only available on a trial basis. The experiment with football lasted only a year before returning almost a decade later in 1919. The club contested its first official match in 1920 defeating Section Burdigalienne 12–0.
Bordeaux achieved professional status in football on 2 July 1936, partly due to the club's merger with fellow "Bordelais" outfit Girondins Guyenne Sport, which resulted in the club that exists today. Bordeaux's rise to professionalism came about alongside the French Football Federation's plea to increase professionalism in French football, which prior to 1932, had been non-existent. The club was inserted into the second division of French football and made its debut appearance during the 1937–38 season. The club's first manager was Spaniard Benito Díaz. Diaz brought fellow Spanish players Santiago Urtizberea and Jaime Mancisidor to the team with the latter serving as captain. The club's most prominent Frenchmen on the team were homegrown attacker Henri Arnaudeau and goalkeeper André Gérard. Bordeaux played its first official match on 23 May 1937 defeating Rhône-Alpes-based FC Scionzier 2–1 at the Stade de Colombes. The club's first ever league match was contested on 22 August losing away to Toulouse 3–2. Bordeaux recorded its first league win against Nîmes. Unfortunately for the club, the team finished 6th in the Southern region of the division. Bordeaux's disappointing finish inserted the club into the relegation playoff portion of the league where the team finished a respectable 3rd. A year later, Bordeaux moved into a new home, the Stade Chaban-Delmas, which had previously been known as, simply Parc Lescure. The facility was built specifically for the 1938 FIFA World Cup and, following the competition's completion, was designated to Bordeaux. The club had formerly played its home matches at the Stade Galin, which today is used as a training ground.
Success and stability.
On 15 October 1940, Bordeaux merged with local club AS Port and took on one of the club's most prestigious traditions, the scapular. Bordeaux ASP, which the club was now known, adorned the scapular during its run to the 1941 edition of the Coupe de France final. The match, played in occupied France at the Stade Municipal in Saint-Ouen, saw Bordeaux defeat SC Fives 2–0 with Urtizberea netting both goals. The Coupe de France triumph was the club's first major honour. Following the liberation of France, Bordeaux returned to league play and earned promotion to the first division following its 2nd-place finish during the 1948–49 season. After the season, André Gérard, now manager of the club, signed Dutchman Bertus de Harder. Led by the three-headed monster of De Harder, Édouard Kargu, and Camille Libar, Bordeaux captured its first-ever league championship, in just the club's first season in the first division, winning by six points over second place Lille. The league success led to Bordeaux being selected to participate in the second edition of the Latin Cup. In the competition, Bordeaux reached the final drawing 3–3 with Portuguese outfit Benfica. The draw forced a second match with Benfica claiming victory following an extra time goal after over two hours and 25 minutes of play.
Bordeaux maintained its title-winning aspirations finishing runners-up to Nice two seasons after winning its first title. The club also performed well in cup competitions reaching the Coupe de France final in 1952 and 1955. In 1952, Bordeaux suffered defeat to the team it finished runner-up to the same year, Nice, following a thrilling match in which eight goals were scored with five of them coming in the first 40 minutes. Bordeaux drew the match at 3–3 following a 55th-minute goal from Henri Baillot, but Nice countered minutes later with two goals in a span of four minutes to go up 5–3, which was the final result. In 1955, Bordeaux were trounced 5–2 by Lille who went up 4–0 within 35 minutes. The resulting struggles in the cup competitions led to struggles domestically with the club suffering relegation in the 1955–56 season. The club returned to the first division for the 1959–60 season, but failed to make an impact falling back to Division 2 after finishing last in the standings with 21 points.
Bordeaux returned to its former selves in the 1960s under new manager and former player Salvador Artigas. Under the helm of Artigas, Bordeaux returned to the first division and finished in a respectable fourth place for the 1962–63 season. The following season, Bordeaux returned to the Coupe de France final where the club faced off against Lyon. Bordeaux, once again, were defeated 2–0 courtesy of two goals from the Argentine Nestor Combin. The club's runner-up finish resulted in the team qualifying for the 1964–65 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup. The appearance was brief with the club losing 4–3 on aggregate to German club Borussia Dortmund. Four seasons later, Bordeaux again reached the final of the Coupe de France, the club's seventh appearance overall. The team faced Saint-Étienne and, again failed to match the achievement reached in 1941 losing 2–1. The following season, Bordeaux earned another appearance in the final, but again, failed to win the trophy losing 2–0 to Marseille. The team suffered an extreme decline during the 1970s, despite the arrival of Alain Giresse. The club played under seven different managers during the decade and consistently finished at the bottom half of the table. In 1979, the club was sold to the influential and ambitious real estate mogul Claude Bez, who positioned himself as president of the club. In the summer of 1983, Girondins de Bordeaux organised a centenary tournament; Bordeaux won a 2–0 victory over Barcelona in the semi-finals of this tournament, and in the final, the club was defeated by VfB Stuttgart.
Return to prominence in the 1980s.
Under the helm of Claude Bez, who injected millions into the club, Bordeaux flourished winning three league championships, two Coupe de France titles, and also performed well in European competitions. During Bez's run presiding over the team, he recruited several French internationals such as Bernard Lacombe, Jean Tigana, René Girard, Jean-Christophe Thouvenel, and Thierry Tusseau. Bez also brought in established manager Aimé Jacquet. Led by 1970s mainstays Giresse and Gernot Rohr, Bordeaux captured its first league championship since 1950 in the 1983–84 season finishing equal on points with Monaco, however, due to having a better goal difference, Bordeaux were declared champions. The next season, Bordeaux again won the league claiming the title by four points over second place Nantes. In Europe, Bordeaux played in the 1984–85 European Cup and reached the semi-finals, defeating Spanish club Athletic Bilbao, Romanian club Dinamo București, and Soviet outfit Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk before losing to Italian club Juventus. In the Coupe de France, Bordeaux finally achieved cup glory defeating Marseille 2–1 in the 1986 edition of the final with Tigana and Giresse recording both goals. The Coupe de France trophy was the club's first since 1941 after eight agonising attempts in finals. The following year the club responded by winning the trophy again; in a re-match with Marseille, Bordeaux won its second consecutive cup courtesy of goals from Philippe Fargeon and Zlatko Vujović. Bordeaux then capped off the 1986–87 Division 1 season by winning its fourth league title and achieving the double as well.
In 1989, Bordeaux ended the decade with a consecutive runners-up medal in their 1989 Ligue 1 campaign and getting up towards the semi-final in a strong European Cup run that season.
Rising from the ashes in the 1990s.
Due to administrative problems, the club was relegated just two years thereafter. In 1992, however, "Les Girondins" won that year's Division 2 title, thus being elevated to the top tier of French football. In the emergence of young and exciting players such as playmaker Zinedine Zidane, striker Christophe Dugarry and left back Bixente Lizarazu, the club ascended even higher to win the UEFA Intertoto Cup in 1995. With this talented trio, the club defeated FC Rotor Volgograd (the 1995 King's Cup Winner), Real Betis, Milan and Slavia Prague in the second, third, quarter- and semi-finals respectively to reach the UEFA Cup final of 1996. Bordeaux witnessed even further glory only three years later, winning their fifth title in that of the 1999 Ligue 1 with winger Sylvain Wiltord winning the Golden Boot of that season with 22 goals.
Into the 2000s.
During the 1999–2000 season, the club played in the new UEFA Champions League for the first time. In two seasons time Bordeaux won another piece of silverware, beating Lorient 3–0 in the 2002 Coupe de la Ligue final. "Le club au scapulaire" then two seasons later defeated Club Brugge 4–1 on aggregate in the fourth round to reach the 2004 UEFA Cup quarter-finals, where the club fell to eventual winners Valencia. Bordeaux got to another final in 2007 where there were eventually victorious in winning the Coupe de la Ligue of that year. Bordeaux then achieved further honours in winning the Ligue 1 and Coupe de la Ligue titles of the 2008–09 French footballing season thus achieving the first ever double in the club's history. In 2013, Bordeaux won the Coupe de France defeating Evian 3–2 in the final. In the 2013–14 Ligue 1 season, Bordeaux finished 7th in the table. In 2015, Bordeaux appointed Willy Sagnol but in 2016 Sagnol was terminated after only winning one match in the first eight games of the season and was replaced by Ulrich Rame. On 27 May 2016, Rame was replaced by Jocelyn Gourvennec. On 20 January 2018, Gourvennec was fired and was replaced by Gus Poyet. Poyet guided Bordeaux to a 6th-placed finish at the end of the season.
In July 2018, General American Capital Partners's CEO Joseph DaGrosa pursued the purchase of the French professional football team for €70 million after 19 years of M6's ownership.
On 18 August 2018, Poyet was suspended by Bordeaux after labelling the situation as "embarrassing" when Gaëtan Laborde was sold to Montpellier without his knowledge or consent. On 5 September 2018, Ricardo Gomes was appointed as "General Manager" — he did not possess the necessary coaching badges to be officially appointed the first-team coach.
2020s, financial crisis and relegation.
On 23 April 2021, citing decreased revenue due to the COVID-19 pandemic and loss of income when Mediapro, TV rights holder, went bankrupt and missed payments last year, the club was placed in administration when American owners King Street stated they would no longer support the club financially. On 22 June 2021, Bordeaux announced that Gérard López acquired the club. In the 2021–22 Ligue 1, Bordeaux finished last in the league table and were relegated to the Ligue 2, for the first time since the 1990–91 season, when they were administratively relegated due to financial difficulties. On 14 June 2022, the DNCG administratively relegated Bordeaux to the Championnat National due to financial issues. The club confirmed it would appeal the decision, citing it as 'brutal'. On 27 July 2022, Bordeaux won its appeal and was officially reinstated in Ligue 2 for the 2022–23 season.
Rivalries.
Bordeaux have two main rivalries, firstly the Derby de la Garonne with Toulouse FC, so named because Bordeaux and Toulouse are the two major clubs that play in cities in south-western France, both of which are on the river Garonne. The consistency and competitiveness of the rivalry developed following Toulouse's return to Ligue 1 after being administratively relegated to the Championnat National in 2001. Les Girondins also contest the Derby de l'Atlantique with their other main rival FC Nantes, with the name stemming from the two cities' proximity to the Atlantic Ocean. The history of this rivalry also transcends to over 50 years and 90 derby games played between the two clubs altogether. Bordeaux also held a 44-year-old record against another big rival, Marseille. From October 1977 to January 2022, Marseille did not win away at Bordeaux's home ground.
Sponsors.
Since July 2020, the equipment manufacturer of the Girondins de Bordeaux is Adidas. The club's main sponsors are the restaurant chain Bistro Régent, the online betting company Betclic and the car dealership SEAT Cupra.
Other sponsors are UNMI, Abatilles, Carlsberg, Mumm, Coca-Cola, La Bordelaise de Lunetterie, TBM, Bordeaux City Council, Gironde General Council, New Aquitaine Region.
 "As of 31 January 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Reserve squad.
"As of 28 December 2023"
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Management and staff.
Coaching history.
In its history, Bordeaux have had 45 coaches. The first was the Spaniard Benito Díaz. Díaz was the first Bordeaux coach to achieve an honour when, in 1941, the club won the Coupe de France. The first Bordeaux coach to win the league was André Gérard. Gérard led the team to the league crown in 1950. He also has the honour of being the club's longest-serving coach having spent a decade with the club from 1947 to 1957. Gérard is followed by Aimé Jacquet who spent nine seasons with the club in the 1980s. Under Jacquet, Bordeaux won three league titles and two Coupe de France titles.
Honours.
Domestic competitions.
Source: 
FC Girondins de Bordeaux in European football.
FC Girondins de Bordeaux first competitive European match was in the 1968–69 European Cup Winners' Cup, beating 1. FC Köln 2–1 before ultimately losing 2–4 on aggregate. Since then, the club has participated in 30 UEFA competitions, its peak being the co-champions of the 1995 UEFA Intertoto Cup and the final game of the 1995–96 UEFA Cup.
UEFA Club Coefficient Ranking.
"As of March 2022"
Media.
From 14 August 2008 to 30 October 2018, the M6 Group carried a network about the club's activity known as "Girondins TV". It carried pre-recorded matches during the season, reserve team games, training session rundowns, and a daily talk show.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1135310" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1135310" title="FC Metz">
FC Metz

Association football club
Football club
Football Club de Metz, commonly referred to as FC Metz or simply Metz (), is a French association football club based in Metz, Lorraine. The club was formed in 1932 and plays in Ligue 1, the first division in the French football league system, for the 2023–24 season after having been promoted as Ligue 2 runners-up for the 2022–23 season. They play their home matches at Stade Saint-Symphorien located within the city. The team is currently managed by László Bölöni. Despite never winning the top flight, they have won the Coupe de France twice and the Coupe de la Ligue twice.
History.
FC Metz was founded in 1932 by the amalgamation of two amateur athletic clubs, and shortly thereafter became a professional team; it is one of the oldest professional football teams in France. Its roots trace back further, to the "SpVgg Metz" club, formed in 1905 when the city of Metz was part of the German Empire. "SpVgg" played in the tier-one "Westkreis-Liga" for a season in 1913–14, before the outbreak of the First World War stopped all play. Some players of this club were part of the "Cercle Athlétique Messin" in 1919, which went on to become FC Metz in 1932. "Messin" was a leading club in the "Division d'Honneur – Lorraine", taking out league titles in 1920, 1921, 1922, 1924, 1926, 1927, 1929 and 1931.
The club played in the French second division north from 1933, winning the league in 1935 and earning promotion to Ligue 1 for the first time. The team became a mid-table side in the first division until the outbreak of the war interfered with play once more. "FCM" did not take part in the top-tier regional competitions in 1939–40.
During World War II, the Moselle département being annexed by Germany, the club had to play under the Germanised name of "FV Metz" in the "Gauliga Westmark". In the three completed seasons of this league from 1941 to 1944, the club finished runners-up each year.
Despite the city of Metz being retaken by allied forces in autumn 1944, the club did not take part in French league football in 1944–45 but returned to Ligue 1 in 1945–46, to come 17th out of 18 clubs. An expansion of the league to 20 clubs meant, the team was not relegated and stayed at the highest level until 1950, when a last place finish ended its Ligue 1 membership. Metz was allowed to stay within Ligue 1 as a special privilege due to its catastrophic situation in the year following the war: the stadium had been damaged, almost beyond repair. The team had to start from scratch once again.
The club rebounded immediately, finishing second in Ligue 2, behind Lyon and returned to the first division. FC Metz made a strong return to this league, finishing fifth in its first season back. After this, the club once more had to battle against relegation season-by-season, finishing second-last in 1958 and having to return to Ligue 2. It took three seasons in this league before it could manage to return to Ligue 1 in 1961, but lasted for only one year in the top flight. FC Metz spent the next five seasons at second division level.
FC Metz ascended to the top level of French football once more in 1967; the team remained in the highest division until they were relegated in 2001, although they bounced back immediately and returned to the Ligue 1 the following year.
After losing the first leg of their 1984–85 European Cup Winners' Cup tie 4–2 to Barcelona at Stade Saint-Symphorien, FC Metz were widely expected to be thrashed at Camp Nou. However, a hat-trick from Yugoslav striker Tony Kurbos gave Les Grenats a shock 4–1 win in the second leg to send the French side through 6–5 on aggregate.
In 1998, the team competed in the qualifications to the UEFA Champions League, but lost in the third round to Finnish team HJK Helsinki. In 2006, FC Metz were relegated from Ligue 1, finishing at the bottom of the table, despite the regular presence of an extremely promising prospect, Miralem Pjanić, who would later be transferred to giants Lyon, for an astonishing fee of €7.5 million. At the end of the 2011–12 season, Metz finished 18th in Ligue 2 and were relegated to the Championnat National, the third tier of French football after a 1–1 draw with Tours at home on 20 May 2012, in very tense circumstances. Metz spent only one season at this level, rebuilding a team with iconic former player Albert Cartier as coach, winning promotion to Ligue 2, and then immediately finishing first and winning promotion to Ligue 1. Unfortunately, the team was relegated again to Ligue 2, but won promotion the next season. This time, Metz managed to secure a 14th place finish, ensuring another season in Ligue 1. For the 2017–18 Ligue 1 season, Metz endured a horrid campaign, losing eleven out of their first twelve matches. The club recovered later in the season but finished bottom of the table and were relegated back to Ligue 2.
On 26 April 2019, Metz were promoted back to Ligue 1 at the first time of asking by finishing first in Ligue 2. The promotion was confirmed with a 2–1 victory over Red Star.
In the clubs first season back in the top flight, Metz finished 15th on the table followed by an improved 10th place finish the following season. In the 2021–22 Ligue 1 season, Metz finished 19th and were relegated back to Ligue 2. The club were promoted back to Ligue 1 as Ligue 2 runners-up for the 2022-23 season.
On Pentecost Sunday, May 29, 2023, there was a dispute at a youth football tournament on the field of SV Viktoria Preußen e.V. in the Eckenheim district of Frankfurt am Main between young players from FC Metz and JFC Berlin, in which a player from FC Metz killed a 15-year-old player from JFC Berlin.
On 12 June 2023, LFP Decision that FC Metz secure promotion to Ligue 1 from 2023–24 season after Bordeaux against Rodez has been suspended and return to top flight after one year absence.
Stadium.
FC Metz plays its home matches at Stade Saint-Symphorien, which has a capacity of 25,636. Thus, it is the largest venue dedicated to football in Lorraine. 
Crest.
Its official colours are grenat (maroon) and white, from which the team derives its nickname Les Grenats. The team's crest features the Lorraine cross, symbolic of the team's regional affiliation, and the dragon called the "Graoully", which in local legend was tamed by Saint Clement of Metz.
Youth academy.
FC Metz also gained recognition in France and Europe for its successful youth academy, which produced star players including: Rigobert Song, Robert Pires, Louis Saha, Emmanuel Adebayor, Papiss Cissé, Miralem Pjanić, Kalidou Koulibaly, and Sadio Mané. The city's proximity to Luxembourg (about 55 km) plays a significant role in the importation of young prospects. The club's board has close ties with the Luxembourgish Football Federation. Nicolas "Nico" Braun, the team's top all-time goalscorer, as well as Pjanić or, closer to our times, Chris Philipps, have played in the G-D's amateur leagues before joining "les Grenats". Despite this, not all Luxembourgers enjoy success with Metz, with Robert "Robby" Langers as the best example.
Honours.
Metz has never won the French championship; its best result was a second-place finish in 1998, behind Lens. The title race lasted until the ultimate fixture, however Metz never recovered from a 0–2 loss against Lens on their home turf. Metz won the Coupe de France twice, in 1984 and 1988, the first of these victories enabled it to qualify for the European Cup Winners' Cup where it achieved arguably the team's greatest moment, an upset of Barcelona in the first round of the competition in October 1984. It lost 4–2 at home in the first leg but won 4–1 away in the return leg, thus qualifying 6–5 on aggregate, making Metz unique among the French teams who have beaten Barcelona at the Camp Nou. Metz also won the Coupe de la Ligue twice, in 1986 and 1996, and has made a total of ten appearances in European tournaments.
"Runners-up (1):" 1997–98
Winners (4): 1934–35, 2006–07, 2013–14, 2018–19
"Runners-up (4):" 1950–51, 1960–61, 1966–67, 2022–23
Winners (2): 1983–84, 1987–88
"Runners-up (1):" 1937–38
Winners (2): 1985–86, 1995–96
"Runners-up (1):" 1998–99
"Runners-up (1):" 1999
 "As of 11 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Other players under contract.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Metz in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1932. To appear in the section below, a player must have played at least a full season for the club.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="11394459" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11394459" title="Stade Français (association football)">
Stade Français (association football)

Football club
Stade Français Football is a French association football team based in Paris and playing in suburb town of Vaucresson. The team is the football section of sports club Stade Français, whose rugby union section is currently the most successful.
The team currently plays at the Haras Lupine sports center in Vaucresson (Hauts-de-Seine), in the nearby western suburbs of Paris.
The club has repeatedly merged with Île-de-France clubs in its history, once with the Cercle athletétique de Paris between 1942 and 1944 and once with the Red Star to form the Stade français-Red Star between 1948 and 1950. Stade Francais played its matches at the Paris stadium called "Bauer stadium" in Saint-Ouen (Seine-Saint-Denis) after the war, then at the Parc des Princes until 1968 and at the Jean-Bouin stadium in the 70s and 80s when the club evolved at professional and national levels.
The Stade Français experienced its heyday during the post-war period with a semi-final of the Coupe de France in 1949 under the name Stade Français-Red Star and a title of champion of France in the second division in 1952. Thereafter , the club discovered continental struggles with two participations in the Cup of Fair Cities in the 1960s (editions 1964-1965, 1965-1966).
Since the abandonment of professionalism and high-level football in the national and regional divisions in the 1980s, the club has evolved in the lower divisions of the Hauts-de-Seine departmental football district.
History.
Founded in 1883, the Stade Français (which was also a founding member of USFSA), did not have an association football section until 1900, established by Étienne Delavault. The team played at several venues, first at Becon, then at the Vélodrome de la Seine before settling down at La Faisanderie, in the Saint-Cloud area, from 1906. Stade Français took professional status in 1942 
The French football stadium knew its hour of glory from 1945 when the club president set up in Paris a team of professional stars, under the leadership of a legendary pair: Larbi Ben Barek on the field and the mythical Helenio Herrera as coach. Together they entered Division 1 in 1946 and were semi-finalists in the Coupe de France in 1949. However, the club returned to Division 2 the same year. Despite the failure of the merger with the Red Star from 1948 to 1950 to form the "Stade Français–Red Star", the club won its only trophy at today, the title of D2 champion in 1952. The club only stayed 2 years in Division 1, since in 1954, it was relegated after losing the play-offs against the neighbor of Racing, despite the presence in its ranks of Dominique Colonna and Kees Rijvers
Nowadays, the club is member of the Paris Ile-de-France Football League, where it registered in 1990. It takes part in departmental competitions but, after a long period of sports decline, the club becomes ambitious again. So in 2009, under the leadership of its new president, Jean-Pierre Pochon, Stade Français decided to return to high-level competition and set up a more dynamic organization. After repairing his two turf pitches, it simultaneously created a U19 team and a Senior team with the objective of winning titles. To mark the occasion, Stade Français aligned its teams with a brand new jersey specially made to measure and which was reminiscent of the blows from the rugby club. The French stadium goes up for the second consecutive year and is thus in the 4th division of the Hauts-de-Seine departmental football district. The objective is to set up a division each year.
Names.
Through its history, the club has changed its name several times:
Notable players.
French international while playing for the club:
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
Managerial history.
Some of the most notable managers of Stade Francais have been:
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="11697126" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11697126" title="CO Roubaix-Tourcoing">
CO Roubaix-Tourcoing

Defunct football club based in Roubaix, France
Football club
Club Olympique de Roubaix-Tourcoing was a football club based in Roubaix, France. The team was founded in 1945 in a merge of three clubs: Excelsior AC Roubaix, RC Roubaix and US Tourcoing. In the 1946–47 season, the club won the Division 1. The club later fell into the lower levels of French football and was eventually dissolved on 15 June 1970.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="11708757" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11708757" title="Hyères FC">
Hyères FC

French football club
Football club
Hyères Football Club is a French association football team playing in the city of Hyères, Var. The club was founded in 1912 and played the first ever season of professional football in France in 1932–1933 but were relegated. Currently the club plays at an amateur level, in Championnat National 2, the fourth tier of French football.
History.
Hyères Football Club was founded on 21 November 1911 with the separation of the football and cycling sections of Vélosport Hyerois. In September 1919 it became a member of the French Football Federation, formed earlier in the year. In 1932 president Barthélemy Perruc led the club into the first season of professional football in France. They were relegated from the Division after just one year, and a year after that the club gave up their professional status.
In 1941 the club reached the semi-final of the wartime Non-occupied zone of the , eliminating Marseille in the quarter-final.
In 1950 the club were champions of the Championnat de France Amateur, which was the third tier of French football, and the highest level of amateur football, at the time. The club spent the next thirty years moving between this level and the regional level below. 
In 1978 the club won promotion to the newly created National Division 4, and two years later reached National Division 3 where they remained for seven seasons until relegation in 1988. They remained in National Division 4 until the FFF reorganised the leagues in 1993, when they placed in the new Championnat National 3, now the fifth tier. In 1998 they gained promotion from what was now Championnat de France Amateur 2 to Championnat de France Amateur, lasting at this level until 2003. 
In 2006 the club were promoted from the CFA2 as both champion of group D and overall champion, and in 2009 were promoted from the CFA as champions of group B. They were relegated from Championnat National in the first season and since then have remained in CFA, now called Championnat National 2.
On 2 February 2021, the club was bought by Mourad Boudjellal, after his attempt to buy Marseille and Toulon failed. A day later Nicolas Anelka became the clubs sporting director. Anelka announced his departure three months later, on 4 May 2021, with no first team game taking place during his tenure, due to the COVID-19 pandemic in France.
 "As of 7 September 2021"
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="11749275" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11749275" title="Pays d'Aix FC">
Pays d'Aix FC

French football club
Football club
Pays d'Aix Football Club, also known as Aix FC is a French association football club based in the city of Aix-en-Provence. The team was founded in 1941 as a merger of Football Club Aixois and Union Sportive Aixoise football clubs. Their best result was playing in French Division 1 in the 1967–68 season, where they finished bottom. Four years later they were further relegated to third level. They spent the following four decades playing in lower level amateur levels. In 2014, the club was renamed from AS Aix to Pays d'Aix FC to mark a rupture with the club's complicated past. As of the 2019–20 season, Pays d'Aix currently play in Provence Départemental 3 in the tenth tier of the French league system.
Notable players.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="11933580" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11933580" title="Excelsior AC (France)">
Excelsior AC (France)

Defunct football club based in Roubaix, France
Football club
Excelsior Athlétic Club was a French association football team playing in the city of Roubaix, Nord.
History.
The team was founded in 1928 in a merger between Football Club de Roubaix and Excelsior Club de Tourcoing. In 1932, the team turned professional and played the first professional football season in 1932/1933 and won the same year its first major trophy, the Coupe de France. Till the World War II, the team managed to stay in Division 1. After the war, the club merged with RC Roubaix and US Tourcoing in CO Roubaix-Tourcoing (1945–1970). After 1970, the team struggled at an amateur level till its demise in 1995. In 1977, the team merged with Sporting Club de Roubaix to create Roubaix Football, which also merged in 1990 with Stade Roubaix (i.e. former RC Roubaix) but never managed to come back to Division 1, only playing the 1983/84 season in Division 2. The team ended due to financial problems.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="11947158" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11947158" title="RC Roubaix">
RC Roubaix

Football club
Racing Club de Roubaix was a French association football team that played in Roubaix, Nord.
History.
The team was founded in 1895 and was very successful before the establishment of professionalism in France. In 1933, after losing twice in a row in the final of Coupe de France, this time against city rival Excelsior AC Roubaix (a professional team), the team turned professional and reached Division 1 in 1936 and stayed there till World War II. After the war, the club merged with Excelsior AC Roubaix and US Tourcoing in CO Roubaix-Tourcoing (1945–1963). In 1963, CO Roubaix-Tourcoing lost its professional status and RC Roubaix decided to merge with another club, Stade Roubaix, to create Racing Stade Roubaisien. This team would eventually merge with Roubaix Football (i.e. former Excelsior AC Roubaix) in Stade Club Olympique de Roubaix, a team which ended in 1995 due to financial problems.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1256301" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256301" title="AC Ajaccio">
AC Ajaccio

Association football club in France
Football club
Athletic Club Ajaccio (), commonly referred to as AC Ajaccio, ACA or simply Ajaccio, is a French professional association football club based in the city of Ajaccio on the island of Corsica. The club was founded in 1910 and plays in Ligue 2. The club president is Christian Leca, and the first-team is coached by manager Olivier Pantaloni, following the sacking of Christian Bracconi in October 2014. Ajaccio play their home matches at the Stade François Coty and are rivals with fellow Corsican club Bastia, with whom they contest the Corsica derby ("Derby Corse").
History.
Depending on sources, it is agreed that Ajaccio began playing in 1909–10. Their adopted colors are red and white stripes. Though they used to play in what was previously utilised as a sand dump, they decided to move to another, cleaner, safer stadium upon the insistence of Jean Lluis, father-in-law of club president Louis Baretti. The new stadium that was chosen held 5,000 spectators and was in use until 1969.
AC Ajaccio were elected Corsican champions on eight occasions, in 1920, 1921, 1934, 1939, 1948, 1950, 1955 and 1964, and are one of three big "island" teams, along with Gazélec Ajaccio and Bastia, the competition between the three being kept no secret. Spectators during the 1946 Corsican Cup final, held between A.C.A. and Sporting Bastia, were handed umbrellas to shield themselves from the violence. Upon refusal of a penalty which would have been awarded to ACA, violence erupted between the fans, who used umbrellas both to cause and shield themselves from violence. This final was abandoned and replayed much later.
A.C.A. became a professional team in 1965 thanks to the ambitious efforts of the club's leaders. They initially adopted the symbol of the polar bear, but this has since been dropped in favour of a more stylised logo that uses a part of the Corsican flag.
In 1967, the team became the first Corsican club to play in France's top division. Prior to the 2022–23 season, they were most recently in Ligue 1 in the 2013–14 season, when they were relegated after finishing in last place, following a spell of three seasons in the top flight; the drop was confirmed with defeat at neighbours Bastia.
In November 2014, Olivier Pantaloni returned for a third spell as manager. His team came third in 2017–18, qualifying for the play-offs, where they beat Le Havre in a semi-final marred by violence on and off the pitch, before losing the final to Toulouse. The club were denied promotion in 2019–20 when the season was curtailed with ten games remaining due to the coronavirus pandemic; Ajaccio were one point off the top two, who were the only ones to go up as the play-offs could not be contested. In the 2021–22 Ligue 2 season, Ajaccio were promoted back to Ligue 1 after finishing second. However, with three games in hand, the club were relegated directly back down.
 "As of 30 January 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable past players.
"For a complete list of AC Ajaccio players, see ."
 "As of 6 November 2014"
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1256445" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256445" title="Stade Malherbe Caen">
Stade Malherbe Caen

Professional French association football team based in Caen
Football club
Stade Malherbe Caen (; commonly known as SM Caen, Malherbe or simply Caen) is a French professional football team, based in the city of Caen in Normandy, that competes in the Ligue 2. The club was founded on 17 November 1913 by the merger of "Club Malherbe Caennais" and "Club Sportif Caennais". The team takes its name from François de Malherbe, a 17th-century poet from Caen.
For most of its history, SM Caen has been one of the main amateur clubs in France. The late 1980s and early 1990s saw the rise of Stade Malherbe in the French football hierarchy. In 1985, Stade Malherbe adopted professional status. Three seasons later, it was promoted for the first time to first division. In 1992, a few months after being narrowly saved from bankruptcy, the club finished fifth in Division 1 and qualified for UEFA Cup. However, it was relegated three years later. Despite a second division title won in 1996, SM Caen fell back into anonymity in the second division.
Under the chairmanship of Jean-François Fortin, from 2002, and under the sporting direction of Patrick Rémy, Franck Dumas and then Patrice Garande, the Stade Malherbe has regained sporting success. The club was promoted into Ligue 1 several times, reached the Coupe de la Ligue final in 2005 and finished 7th in Ligue 1 in 2016. In 2018, during the club's fifth consecutive season in Ligue 1, a conflict erupted within the management team, causing the departure of chairman Jean-François Fortin and coach Patrice Garande. Caen was relegated to Ligue 2 in 2019. Facing financial troubles, it was bought by the American fund Oaktree Capital Management in 2020, which appointed Olivier Pickeu as the new president.
SM Caen has been playing since 1993 at the Stade Michel d'Ornano. Before and since its foundation, the club played at Stade de Venoix, which is now used by the reserve team. It has geographical rivalries with Le Havre AC (sometimes called "Le derby normand") and Stade Rennais, its closest neighbour when the club was in Ligue 1.
History.
Genesis (Before 1913).
Many football clubs were constituted in Caen at the end of the 19th century : the "Union sportive des étudiants de Caen", founded in 1892, the "Union Athlétique du Lycée Malherbe" (UALM), founded in 1892 or 1895 and the "Club Sportif Caennais", founded in November 1899. These clubs participated in the early editions of the football championship organised by the "Union des Sociétés Françaises de Sports Athlétiques".
In 1907, former members of UALM created the "Club Malherbe Caennais", soon the best club in Lower Normandy. In 1909 and 1911, several friendlies matches were organised between a selection of players from Caen and the English club of St Albans City F.C.
First years and first professional adventure (1913–1947).
The "Stade Malherbe Caennais" was officially founded on 17 November 1913 from the merger of "Club Sportif Caennais" and "Club Malherbe Caennais". It was a multi-sport athletic club, which adopted the "Malherbe" and the striped jersey of the CMC, and the red and blue colours of CSC. The club had its own facilities – the Stade de Venoix – inherited from the CMC.
The football team of CMC, engaged in the league in Lower Normandy, changed its name just after the start of the season. By winning this competition, Stade Malherbe recorded their first title in its first year of existence. Having qualified for the finals of the 1914 USFSA Football Championship, Caen was eliminated in the 1/8 final by the Union sportive Servannaise : after a draw in the first game (3–3) it had to forfeit the second. World War I stopped the competitions. Thirty-nine members of the club were killed in the fighting, including former captain Eugène Lesomptier.
In 1919, the USFSA championship was replaced by regional championships organised by the French Football Federation, called "Division d'Honneur". Stade Malherbe, reinforced by the move to Caen of the former French international Eugène Maës, won six times the championship of Lower Normandy between 1920 and 1928, but were unable to compete with the major Upper Normandy clubs, Le Havre AC and FC Rouen. Since 1919–20, Caen also participated in the Coupe de France but fell in round of 32 in 1921 and 1922. In 1929, the two "Division d'Honneur" leagues of Normandy were merged and Stade Malherbe was promoted the year after. Its best final standing was 5th in 1933.
In 1934, one year after FC Rouen and Le Havre AC, Stade Malherbe acquired professional status and reached the French Division 2. The club finished 11th out of 16 for the first season, then 6th in 1936 and 8th in 1937. But its financial situation deteriorated and Stade Malherbe left D2 in 1938, after four professional seasons.
The club then returned to "Division d'Honneur" of Normandy. It won the last edition before World War II in 1938–39, and the first two after WW2 in 1946 and 1947.
An important amateur club (1948–1985).
In 1948, Stade Malherbe joined the newly founded "Championnat de France amateur", the third level of French football. Soon considered as a "lord" in CFA, Caen was unable to win the championship, unlike their regional rival US Quevilly, despite successive calls to former French international players as coaches: Jules Vandooren, Jean Prouff, Andre Grillon, Jean Vincent and Oliver Celestin.
Stade Malherbe made itself known essentially by repeated feats in Coupe de France in the 1950s : French champion Stade de Reims (2–1) and top teams Racing Club de France (3–2) and RC Lens were defeated in January 1953, 1956 and 1961. In 1958, Caen pushed FC Nantes to play five games to decide: the first three games resulting in 0–0 draws, the fourth was stopped, the fifth saw Nantes win 1–0. Through its success Caen won the "Challenge France-Football" rewarding the best amateur team in Coupe de France in 1956 and 1961. Undermined by the instability of its coaches and presidents and a precarious financial health, Stade Malherbe weakened gradually and was relegated twice (in 1962 and 1965) into Division d'Honneur, but regained its place in CFA.
In 1970, the CFA was removed and the Division 2 was enlarged to 48 teams. During the 1970s, Caen evolved between D3 and D2, where it failed to stabilise. Jacques Mouilleron became coach in 1973. In 1975, the club won its first national title: the West group of Division 3. Stade Malherbe was named best amateur club by France-Football and Jean-Paul Bouffandeau and Jean-Paul Pottier were named French amateur players of the year in 1975 and 1976. 3 years later, Caen fell back to D3.
Pierre Mankowski was hired as player-coach in 1983. He led Stade Malherbe from D3 to the top of D2 in a few seasons, and pushed it to adopt professional status in 1985.
From D2 to the European Cup (1985–1993).
SM Caen has been a professional football club since 1985. The stated objective of Mankowski was to bring Caen into the first division. He helped the team improve, first in defence then in attack. Caen finished sixth in D2 in 1986 and second in 1987, with notable scorers Philippe Prieur and Éric Pécout. Caen made the stade de Venoix an unbeatable place but bowed out in front of AS Cannes in the playoffs. Caen succeeded in the playoffs following season, defeating Olympique Lyonnais and Chamois Niortais F.C., relegated from D1.
In 1988 Stade Malherbe made Division 1. Despite many departures, including coach Mankowski (replaced by Robert Nouzaret) and six first losses, Caen stayed up, one point ahead of RC Strasbourg, with the advent of a promising striker Fabrice Divert. Stade Malherbe confirmed, not without difficulties, its performance the following season.
With a new coach, Daniel Jeandupeux, the team was largely restructured. In 1990–91, Caen took its place in the first half of Division 1, thanks to the excellent results obtained in Venoix. However, the press revealed in late 1991 that the club was close to bankruptcy. Regional businesses and local government bailed out the club, which led to a brilliant 1991–92 season. Stade Malherbe finished fifth and qualified for the first (and so far only) time for the UEFA Cup. Stéphane Paille scored 15 goals during the season. For the first round of the 1992–93 UEFA Cup, Caen had to face up to Real Zaragoza. Caen won 3–2 in the 1st leg but lost 2–0 in Spain. Despite the goals of Xavier Gravelaine, SM Caen finished the season in a relatively disappointing eleventh rank.
Between First and Second Division (since 1993).
In the 2003–04 season, Caen finished 2nd in Ligue 2, gaining promotion to Ligue 1. They were relegated on the last day of the 2004–05 Ligue 1 season, finishing in 18th place despite some positive results, including a surprise 3–2 away win at Marseille. But the main highlight of their season was making it into the final of the Coupe de la Ligue for the first time in their history. Their chance at a major trophy eluded them however, as they lost 2–1 to Strasbourg in the final.
On 25 May 2007, SM Caen obtained promotion to Ligue 1 after a victory in last game at Libourne (1–2). In the 2008–09 season, the team was once again relegated to Ligue 2 after losing 1–0 at home to Bordeaux, but won championship next season and thus came back to Ligue 1.
In the 2010–11 season, Caen got off to a highly impressive start by defeating defending champions Marseille 2–1 away on the first day of the season, then following it up with a 3–2 home win over the previous season's Champions League semi-finalists Lyon.
In the 2013–14 season, Caen were in Ligue 2, but won promotion to Ligue 1 for the 2014–15 season. As part of their promotion battle, they drew a crucial match with Nîmes in May 2014. This 1–1 result was also very favourable to Nîmes who were battling to avoid relegation. This result raised suspicions, and in November 2014, Caen chairman Fortin was arrested, amongst several others, on suspicion of match fixing. Finally, he was cleared in March 2015. For the 2016–17 and 2017–18 seasons, Caen avoided relegation to Ligue 2 on both occasions by securing a draw on the final day of the season against Paris Saint-Germain.
In the 2018–19 season, Caen were relegated on the final day of the campaign after losing to Bordeaux 1–0. Caen needed to win the match and hope that results elsewhere would go in their favour. The relegation ended Caen's five-year stay in the top division.
Honours.
"* denotes promotion without winning the championship."
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Hidden begin/styles.css"/&gt;Domestic Record
Club crest and colours.
Club Malherbe Caennais wore a black and white vertical stripes jersey, while Club Sportif Caennais used blue and red horizontal stripes. Following the merger of two clubs in 1913, the officials decided to mix colours and symbols by adopting the CMC vertical stripes and CSC colours.
Stade Malherbe used the same diamond shaped logo for almost fifty years, designed for its first professional period in 1934.
In 1989, a new logo was designed, with a longship floating on the waves, a nod to the Viking origin of Normandy, and three arrows of the city of Caen. It was used in various versions for eighteen seasons, including within a shield in the 2006–07 season. In 2007, officials presented a new logo.
The new logo reflects the identity of the club, closely linked to the Norman period of William the Conqueror: the flag of Normandy, which is actually the historical Norman flag of the Two Lions, can be often seen in the Kop Normandy.
In 2013, the official anthem of SM Caen "Normands, fiers et conquérants!" was made with a marked reference to the Norman identity:
"Représenter la Normandie est un honneur
Derrière nos léopards nous chanterons en cœur!
Décrire cette belle région
Doit se faire à l'unisson
Nous sommes Normands, fiers et conquérant!
Portons les couleurs du Stade Malherbe de Caen,
et c'est à d'Ornano que nous allons chantant
Nous sommes de la même famille,
Tous unis à domicile,
Nous sommes Normands fiers et conquérants!"
English:
"Representing Normandy is an honour,
Backing our leopards, we sing our hearts out!
Describing this beautiful region
must be done together
We are Normans, proud and conquerors!
We wear the colours of SM Caen
And we go singing to d'Ornano
We are from the same family,
All united at home,
We are Normans, proud and conquerors!"
Stadiums.
Stade de Venoix was the club's home from 1913, although the first stand was built only in 1925, until 1993. Venoix could hold over 15,000 spectators at its peak, and now has a capacity of 5,000.
In 1993 a new 21,500-capacity stadium was built, named Stade Michel d'Ornano. The new stadium is around 500 meters away from the Stade de Venoix.
Players.
Current squad.
"As of 13 February 2024."
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable former players.
last update : summer 2010(only D2, D1 and cups matches)
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1256446" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256446" title="RC Strasbourg Alsace">
RC Strasbourg Alsace

French professional football club
Football club
Racing Club de Strasbourg Alsace (commonly known as RC Strasbourg, Racing Straßburg, RCSA, RCS, or simply Strasbourg; Alsatian: "Füeßbàllmànnschàft Vu Stroßburri") is a French professional association football club founded in 1906, based in the city of Strasbourg, Alsace. It has possessed professional status since 1933 and is currently playing in Ligue 1, the top tier of French football, ever since winning the 2016–17 Ligue 2 championship. This comes after the club was demoted to the fifth tier of French football at the conclusion of the 2010–11 Championnat National season after going into financial liquidation. Renamed RC Strasbourg Alsace, they won the CFA championship in 2012–13, and eventually became Championnat National champions in 2015–16. The club's home stadium, since 1914, is the Stade de la Meinau.
The club is one of six clubs to have won all three major French trophies: the Championship in 1979, the Coupe de France in 1951, 1966 and 2001 and the Coupe de la Ligue in 1964, 1997, 2005 and 2019. Strasbourg is also among the six teams to have played more than 2,000 games in France's top flight (spanning 56 seasons) and has taken part in 52 European games since 1961. Despite these accomplishments, the club has never really managed to establish itself as one of France's leading clubs, experiencing relegation at least once a decade since the early 1950s. Racing has changed its manager 52 times in 75 years of professional play, often under pressure from the fans.
The destiny of the club has always been wedded to the history of Alsace. Like the region, Racing has changed nationality three times and has a troubled history. Founded in what was then a part of the German Empire, the club from the beginning insisted on its Alsatian and popular roots, in opposition to the first Strasbourg-based clubs which came from the German-born bourgeoisie. When Alsace was returned to France in 1919, the club changed its name from "1. FC Neudorf" to the current "Racing Club de Strasbourg" in imitation of Pierre de Coubertin's Racing Club de France, a clear gesture of francophilia. Racing players lived through World War II as most Alsatians did: evacuated in 1939, annexed in 1940 and striving to avoid nazification and incorporation in the Wehrmacht between 1942 and 1944. When Alsace was definitively returned to France, Racing's identity switched towards Jacobinism with, for example, emotional wins in the cup in 1951 and 1966 amidst Franco-Alsatian controversies. More recently, the club has been eager to promote its European vocation along with its strong local ties.
History.
Foundation and early years (1906–1945).
The club was founded in 1906 by a group of youngsters in the Neudorf neighbourhood of what was then Straßburg, Elsaß-Lothringen, in the German Empire, but is today Strasbourg, Alsace, in France. With the help of their primary-school teacher, they formed a team called "Erster Fußball Club Neudorf", commonly named "FC Neudorf". At that time, the new 1. FCN was a minor club in a then-remote southern part of the Strasbourg area. Local football had been dominated since the 1890s by the more central and elitist Straßburger Fußball Verein. According to club historian Pierre Perny, the official establishment of the FC Neudorf in 1907 may well have been accelerated by the planned move of FC Frankonia to the Haemmerle Garten, a large park in southern Strasbourg close to the Neudorf. As its name told, FC Frankonia was mainly composed of German-born immigrants from the Franconia region of southwest Germany – some of them soldiers – living in central and northern Strasbourg, while FC Neudorf had clearly Alsatian, popular roots. FC Neudorf joined the southern German league in 1909, starting at its lowest level, Division C. They captured the Division C championship three years later, earning promotion to Division B. In 1914, FC Neudorf was able to evict rivals Frankonia from the Haemmerle Garten for a rent of 300 marks a year. This location would later become the site of the Stade de la Meinau, where the club still plays today. In the aftermath of World War I, the territory of Alsace-Lorraine came back to France and, on 11 January 1919, the club adopted the name "Racing-Club Strasbourg-Neudorf" until becoming simply "Racing Club de Strasbourg" later in the year. The use of the word "Racing" does not denote any association with horse- or car-racing; instead, it is an anglicism that was common in France at the time, as exemplified by the case of the then-famous Racing Club de France, which was a symbolical inspiration for Strasbourg's Racing as Alsace was reintegrated within France. The word is usually pronounced in French ("Le Racing") or in Alsatian ("D'Racing") without any English accentuation. Racing quickly joined French competitions and won the Alsace championship in 1923, 1924 and 1927. They also took part in the Coupe de France, the only national competition at that time. In 1925, they reached the last sixteen, where they fell to Lille after eliminating the then-dominant Red Star Paris.
On 10 June 1933, at the "Restaurant de la Bourse", the club made the jump to the professional ranks and, thus, joined the national championship established just a year before. RCS started competition in Ligue 2 but immediately earned promotion to the top flight at the end of the 1933–34 season, going through a pair of two-legged playoff matches, first against Mulhouse (0–0 and 3–1), and then against AS Saint-Étienne (2–0 and 4–4). In the mid-1930s, Racing managed a second-place finish in 1934–35 and a third-place finish the next season. In 1937, the club reached for the first time the final of the Coupe de France, losing to rivals Sochaux (1–2). This successful RCS team of the 1930s included two French internationals – Fritz Keller and Oscar Heisserer – as well as German striker Oskar Rohr who still holds the club's goalscoring record.
With the outbreak of World War II, professional sport was suspended and Alsatians were evacuated to south-west France, especially in the Dordogne. During the Phoney War, a group of youngsters kept the club existing in Périgueux, where they won the Dordogne championship in 1940. After the French defeat, Alsace was "de facto" annexed by the Third Reich and, in August 1940, the team took up play as in the Gauliga Elsaß, a top-flight amateur division in German football. RCS captured their group in 1941 and participated in the regional finals, where they were put out by FC Mülhausen. The team earned second-place results in each of the following two seasons and made an appearance in the opening round of the DFB-Pokal in 1942. Starting in 1942, Alsatians were forcibly conscripted in the Wehrmacht and the Waffen-SS and several club players – including Oscar Heisserer – fled or had their teammates deliberately wound them to avoid incorporation. Oskar Rohr also had been imprisoned since 1940 after serving in the French Foreign Legion at the outbreak of the war. During a game against SS side "SG SS Straßburg", Rasensportclub players wore a uniform consisting of a blue jersey, white shorts and red socks as a clear display of French patriotism.
First national successes and failures (1945–1976).
Allied armies retook Alsace in 1944 and the club quickly resumed play as "Racing Club de Strasbourg" in France's top flight. The team was then built around Oscar Heisserer—who became in April 1945 the first Alsatian to captain the national team—and Spanish defender Paco Mateo. In 1947, the "Strasbourgeois" reached for the second time the final of the cup at Colombes, this time losing to Lille OSC 0–2. They remained in first-division competition until, at the end of the 1948–49 season, it appeared the side would be relegated. However, neighbouring club SR Colmar liquidated their professional team, leaving room for Strasbourg to stay up. In 1951, the "Bleus" won their first major trophy, defeating Valenciennes 3–0 to finally bring the Coupe de France home. The significance of this victory went far beyond the sporting realm as Alsace was then shaken by the Oradour-sur-Glane massacre investigation. Fourteen Alsatians, most of them forcibly incorporated in the Das Reich division, had been charged with war crimes, a move that aroused considerable resentment in the region. Immediately after their return in Strasbourg, the players held a symbolical and emotional ceremony at the city's monument to the deaths.
Only one year later, Strasbourg was relegated following the worst ever season in the club's history. They were however back in the top flight after only one season in Division 2. In 1954–55, thanks to the arrival of Austrian star Ernst Stojaspal, Strasbourg had one of its best championship seasons in the post-war era, eventually ending with the 4th place. The club, however, was unable to build on this success and was relegated to Division 2 in 1957 and 1960, each time gaining immediate promotion back to the top flight. During the 1960s, the club was able to participate in the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup thanks to the city's "Foire européenne". In 1964–65 under Paul Frantz's guidance, Racing ousted giants Milan and Barcelona before falling in the quarter-finals against Manchester United. A year later, they repeated as cup winners beating champions Nantes in final by the score of 1–0. On this occasion, captain René Hauss accomplished the remarkable feat of winning two cups with the same club with a 15 years-interval. Other key team members during this era included Raymond Kaelbel and young talents Gilbert Gress and Gérard Hausser. Again, Racing's triumph in the cup was not without controversy, reporter Thierry Roland said on live TV that "the cup [was] leaving France", a comment that was deemed offensive by many in Alsace.
In 1968, Racing started a process that would eventually lead to a merger with two other clubs, the "Association Sportive Culturelle de la Meinau" and, most importantly, the CS des Pierrots 1922 Strasbourg. The merger was effective in 1970 and the new entity was named "Le Racing Pierrots Strasbourg Meinau", or RPSM. The "Pierrots" were then a very successful amateur team – they won the national amateur championship in 1969 and 1970—but lacked sufficient structures to jump to professional play while Racing was more wealthy but in search for talent. The merger thus appeared as an excellent opportunity to build a powerful football club in Strasbourg and was favoured by business and political circles. However, the wedding was a difficult one with many internal struggles that were evidenced when some of the former "Pierrots" left the new entity as soon as 1971 to re-found their former club. That same year, the RPSM was relegated despite the arrival at the end of the season of Yugoslavian star Ivica Osim. As usual, Strasbourg then won immediate promotion with Osim and two French internationals in its ranks: Jean-Noël Huck and Marc Molitor. Back in division 1 in 1972, the club made one of the biggest transfer blunders in its history: Osim was sent to Sedan to leave a foreign player spot for Reinhard Libuda. The Yugoslavian left Strasbourg in tears but helped Sedan to decent results while Libuda was quickly suspended due to a match fixing scandal in Germany and eventually released in March 1973. In 1976, the club was again relegated and went back to its old identity as Racing Club de Strasbourg, reflecting the final failure of the RPSM merger.
Glorious years (1976–1980).
In 1976, the future seemed somewhat dark for Racing: the club had been relegated for the second time in only four years, was torn apart by internal struggles following the failure of the merger and was desperately seeking municipal subventions to reach a balanced budget. Financial difficulties meant that Racing was unable to retain or replace its best players (Huck, Molitor, Gress, Hausser, Spiegel) who left for other clubs or retired. This impossibility to buy on the transfer market meant that, for the first time, Strasbourg had to rely essentially on players out of its youth academy and local amateur clubs. Fortunately for the club, the mid-1970s saw the emergence of a very talented generation of youngsters consisting mainly of Léonard Specht, Jean-Jacques Marx, René Deutschmann, Yves Ehrlacher, Albert Gemmrich, Roland Wagner and Joël Tanter. Along with goalkeeper Dominique Dropsy and captain Jacky Duguépéroux, these players formed the backbone of the team for the superb 1976–1980 period. During these four years, Racing won two championships (D2 in 1977 and D1 in 1979), reached very honourable league rankings the two other years (third in 1978, fifth in 1980) and had its best results ever in European play (UEFA Cup round of sixteen in 1979, European Cup quarter finals in 1980).
The start of the 1976–77 season was nevertheless difficult. In November, after a defeat at Amiens, Racing called Elek Schwartz out of retirement to help and supervise the work of player-manager Heinz Schilcher. Schwartz was an important player of the 1930s team and had a renowned international coaching career behind him, especially with spells at the Netherlands national team and Benfica. Under his guidance, the team quickly improved, earning promotion to Division 1 and defeating Monaco for the Division 2 championship title, the first one in the club's history. After accomplishing his mission, Schwartz definitely retired and was replaced by Gilbert Gress. As a player, Gress had achieved iconic status with Racing supporters. A child of the Neudorf, he was a genial player with a strong personality, the first Frenchman to shine in the neighbouring Bundesliga with VfB Stuttgart. His second return to Strasbourg, after a first comeback as a player, was greeted with enthusiasm and his charisma aroused a strong public interest for the team's performances, with attendance rates at an all-time high.
The 1977–78 season saw the peculiar dominance of the two promoted sides with Monaco going on to win the championship and Strasbourg reaching an unexpected third place, the best ranking since 1936. Gress printed his mark on the team right away, insisting on the recruitment of experienced, hard-working players (Jacky Novi, Raymond Domenech, Francis Piasecki) instead of foreign stars and putting into practice innovative tactical ideas. A self-proclaimed admirer of Ajax's Total Football, Gress wanted all his players to both defend and attack and asked for great versatility. This was rather unusual in French football at that time. In most French clubs, defenders were told not to cross the midfield line and strikers had almost no defensive duties. To the contrary, Gress instructed his forwards to exert immediate pressure on the other's side defenders and encouraged offensive initiatives by his own backs. A sign of versatility was the fact the side's top-scorer during that era, Albert Gemmrich, played on the left wing despite being right-footed. Gemmrich developed an ability to score with both feet after an injury that forced him to train using only his left foot and Gress used his peculiar profile to puzzle defences, with great success.
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Dropsy
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Duguépéroux
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Novi
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Domenech
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Marx
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Ehrlacher
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Deutschmann
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Wagner
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Gemmrich
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Piasecki
em; top:-0.65em; width:10em; line-height:1.4em; white-space:nowrap"&gt; Tanter
Line-up for the 1979 title game at Lyon
For the 1978–79 season, Racing kept essentially the same team that had won promotion in 1977 and a third place in 1978. The only exceptions were the addition of midfielder Roger Jouve and the exchange between striker Jacques Vergnes and Chadian player Nabatingue Toko. A French international, Vergnes clashed with Gress due to his unwillingness to assume defensive duties and his vocal frustration after being regularly sidelined. He was quickly sent to Bordeaux six games after the start the season. His replacement, Tonko, was the only foreign player on the squad that year, a fact that again was unusual since French club football was at that time still very dependent on the qualities of players from abroad. Strasbourg took the lead early in the season and did not give it back until the end in spite of widespread scepticism from national followers. The absence of big names in the team was considered by many to be a crippling handicap against established teams like Saint-Étienne or Nantes which had internationally renowned players. For his part, Gress used the critical review of the press to boost his player's motivation and insisted that "the star is the team". Racing finished atop the championship on 56 points with an undefeated home record. The return from Lyon, where the title game was played, was triumphant with huge crowds greeting the team at every railway station in Alsace before the arrival of the train at Strasbourg.
The club saw same movement during the 1979 inter-season. Chairman Alain Léopold was replaced by the influential André Bord, Duguépéroux ended his pro career and Gemmrich left for Bordeaux. To replace him, Bord imposed the recruitment of Carlos Bianchi to Gress. Bianchi was a prolific goalscorer but he was also a very traditional striker with no intention to commit to defence and teamplay, to Gress' despair. The season was marked by the return of internal struggles, especially with the increasingly confrontational relationship between Gress and Bord, but the team nevertheless achieved a fifth-place finish and advanced to the quarter-finals of the European Cup, where it was eliminated by Ajax (0–0;0–4).
Chronic instability (since 1980).
The "Bleus" did not enjoy their success for long. In September 1980, Gress was controversially sacked and, after several seasons of middling results, Racing was returned to second-tier play in 1986. For the first time, Strasbourg failed to win immediate promotion back to the first tier, eventually ending 9th place in its group, the worst ranking ever for the club. Success however came back with the 1987–88 season as new manager Henryk Kasperczak led Racing to its second Division 2 title with players like Juan Simón, Peter Reichert and the returning Léonard Specht. Strasbourg, however, was unable to preserve its spot in the top-flight and was back in Division 2 in 1989. With Specht now a manager, Racing failed to secure promotion for the next two seasons, each time falling in the playoffs, first against Nice and then again Lens. In 1991–92, Gress came back to his hometown as manager and, after defeating Rennes (0–0; 4–1) in the final promotion playoff match, Strasbourg made a lasting return to the top flight. The 1992–93 season saw the club finish in eighth place, a ranking that has not been equalled since, allowing the likes of José Cobos, Frank Leboeuf and Marc Keller to shine in the top flight. At the end of the 1993–94 season, Gress left Racing due to personal disagreements with the club's direction. He was replaced by Daniel Jeandupeux who was himself fired after eight months. Jacky Duguépéroux then took over the club and led it to its most brilliant period since the 1979 title. During the 1990s, there was a mounting interest for football in France with the rise of the national team and, like other clubs, Racing benefited from this context. The club was then able to attract French major players like Franck Sauzée and foreign stars like Aleksandr Mostovoi. With this mix of established players and rising prospects, the team reached the final of the cup in 1995, losing to Paris Saint-Germain (0–1). In April that same year, Strasbourg became the only team to defeat champions Nantes, 2–0 at la Meinau. After successfully going through the 1995 Intertoto Cup during the summer, Racing was able to participate in the UEFA Cup where they reached the second round, losing to Italian giants AC Milan.
In 1996, the Bosman ruling entered into force and made it difficult for French clubs to retain their best players. Strasbourg was no exception. During the summer, the team lost Mostovoi and its two French internationals, Marc Keller and Frank Leboeuf. Despite these departures, Racing fared well in the league, staying most of the season in the top 5 before ultimately settling for a 9th-place finish. That same year, the IMG–McCormack Group was chosen by the municipality to take control of the club. The players, still trained by Jacky Duguépéroux, went on to capture the Coupe de la Ligue – the first national trophy in 18 years – by defeating Bordeaux in a penalty shootout. A good UEFA Cup run followed that victory, allowing young players formed at the club like Olivier Dacourt or Valérien Ismaël to shine in continental play. After a successful qualification round against Rangers and Liverpool, Strasbourg defeated Inter Milan 2–0 at la Meinau, but fell 0–3 in the away leg.
In the meantime, IMG had taken over the club in the summer of 1997 and Patrick Proisy, former tennis player and head of the French branch, became president. He was joined a year later by his friend Claude Le Roy as manager. The Proisy–Le Roy period at Racing was a troubled one with poor results, several scandals and a general disillusionment of the fans towards the club's management. Several suspicious transfers during that period have led Strasbourg's prosecutor to indict Proisy and Le Roy of misuse of company assets and forgery in 2006. During their reign, the club sold all of its best prospects and essentially replaced them with disappointing, expensive foreign players such as Diego Hector Garay, Gonzalo Belloso and Mario Haas. In 2000–01, the club accomplished the paradoxical feat of being relegated after spending the whole season in the bottom three while winning the French cup with a victory on penalties against Amiens. On that occasion, Paraguayan star José Luis Chilavert scored the winning penalty for Strasbourg at the Stade de France.
In 2001–02, the club, led by manager Ivan Hašek, immediately re-took its place among the country's football elite by finishing runners-up in Ligue 2. The year 2003 saw the departure of IMG and Proisy. The club was taken over by a pool of local investors with former player Marc Keller staying as director-general. The new ownership focused on cleaning up the club's finances. In 2005, Racing won their second domestic trophy in four years when they beat Caen 2–1 in the final of the League Cup, a feat which provided them with a passport to the 2005–06 UEFA Cup, in which they reached the last sixteen and were eliminated 4–2 on aggregate by FC Basel of Switzerland.
In 2006, Strasbourg was again relegated. The club was taken over by real estate investor Philippe Ginestet and celebrated its centennial in the autumn of 2006 with various events, including an exhibition and a friendly match against Marseille. Ginestet hired French legend Jean-Pierre Papin as the new manager and the club again won immediate promotion to the top flight in 2007, finishing at third place. In spite of this, Papin resigned as manager, citing internal relationship problems, and was succeeded by Jean-Marc Furlan. Under Furlan, RCS was unable to preserve its spot in Ligue 1, mainly due to eleven consecutive defeats at the end of the 2007–08 season, a record for post-World War II football in France. Furlan was nevertheless confirmed as manager for the following Ligue 2 season but failed in his mission to bring the club back in the top-tier as Racing ended 4th with a huge defeat at Montpellier. Furlan's contract was subsequently terminated and Phillipe Ginestet stepped down from his position as chairman while remaining the major shareholder. He was succeeded by Léonard Specht, who picked Gilbert Gress as manager. However, Gress quickly entered in conflict with many members of the club, including Ginestet, whom he violently attacked just after his side's defeat to Châteauroux in the inaugural league game. Ginestet then convened an extraordinary meeting of the board to sack Gress, prompting Léonard Specht's resignation. Gress was replaced by assistant manager Pascal Janin, first as a caretaker and then as permanent manager, when Ginestet re-took the club's presidency at the end of August 2009. In the 2009–10 season, a final-day away defeat relegated Strasbourg to the Championnat National as they suffered their second relegation in three seasons. The 2010–11 season saw them narrowly miss out on promotion back to Ligue 2 as they finished fourth behind Guingamp.
On 17 July 2011, Racing Club de Strasbourg entered total liquidation and were removed from the National in favour of AS Cherbourg. On 25 August 2011, after lengthy negotiations with the FFF, Strasbourg were eventually reinstated into the fifth tier of the French football system, the CFA 2, Group C. Strasbourg finished with 100 points to win promotion to the CFA, the fourth tier, during their first attempt in the 2011–12 season.
In 2012, the club was renamed RC Strasbourg Alsace with a corresponding new badge. Strasbourg finished as champions of the CFA at the end of the 2012–13 season and returned to the National. In 2014, Jacky Duguépéroux was given the role of manager for the third time. He replaced François Keller, who, with three years of service, was their longest-serving manager since Gilbert Gress in the early-to-mid-1990s.
Return to the professional leagues.
On 27 May 2016, Strasbourg drew 0–0 at Belfort to become champions of the National and clinch promotion to Ligue 2, marking their return to the professional level of the French football pyramid after a six-year absence. Duguéperoux was however dismissed and replaced by Thierry Laurey, who had just been relegated from Ligue 1 with Gazélec Ajaccio.
On 19 May 2017, Strasbourg sealed its return to Ligue 1 after a nine-year absence from the French top tier following a 2–1 home victory over Bourg-Péronnas to claim the 2016-17 Ligue 2 championship. On 2 December 2017, Strasbourg won 2–1 against Paris Saint-Germain, a first defeat for PSG of the season in Ligue 1 or the Champions League. At the end of the 2017–18 Ligue 1 season, Strasbourg finished 15th.
On 30 March 2019, Strasbourg won their fourth Coupe de la Ligue title by beating Guingamp 4–1 on penalties following a goalless draw after extra time. The final was played at Lille’s Stade Pierre-Mauroy, and Strasbourg’s goalkeeper Bingourou Kamara was named the Man of the Match.
In the 2020–21 Ligue 1 season, Strasbourg struggled for most of the campaign but managed to finish 15th on the table. The following summer, Strasbourg chose not to renew Laurey's contract and instead hired Julien Stéphan, who had led Stade Rennais to their first major trophy in decades. During Stephan's first season in charge, Strasbourg contested for European qualification spots and finished sixth at the end of the year. In April 2021, the club partnered up with French Esport organization Team Vitality for the FIFA eLigui 1, marking their first step into competitive Esports.
Stéphan was dismissed in January 2023 with the team in 19th place; his successor Frédéric Antonetti led them to survival, but left by mutual accord with new owners BlueCo, who had previously purchased Chelsea. Former France international Patrick Vieira was subsequently hired on a three-year deal.
Colours and crest.
While the colours of the town are red and white, Racing has always played in a combination of blue and white. The exact origin of this choice of colours is unknown. Over the years, the most common uniform has been composed of a medium blue jersey, white shorts and medium blue socks. During the last ten years, however, the team has regularly switched between medium blue, dark blue, sky blue and white as the main colour of its home jersey. Since 2007, the Flag of Alsace is featured on the back of the club's shirt. Hummel is the current kit designer. Previously (1973–2000; 2004–2007), Racing was equipped by Adidas, which has its French seat in Landersheim, between Strasbourg and Saverne. ASICS also supplied the club (2000–03).
The current team crest has been in use – with interruptions – since 1976 and is generally considered as the most legitimate one. It includes a stylised stork (symbol of Alsace), a red diagonal stripe from the city's coat of arms and a depiction of the Cathedral along with the club's initials: RCS. Between 1997 and 2006, the club used another logo, introduced by Patrick Proisy. This crest was then considered to be more "modern" and was supposed to depict at the same time the Cathedral and a stork. The resemblance, however, was far from being obvious to everyone and the design was quickly derogatively nicknamed "Pac-Man" due to some common traits with the famous video game. In 2006, the new management of the club, acceding to a supporter demand, re-installed the 1976 crest.
Stadium.
Racing have been playing at the Stade de la Meinau in southern Strasbourg since 1914. The stadium hosted the 1938 World Cup and Euro 1984. Its maximum capacity was downsized from 45,000 to 29,000 during the 1990s to meet new safety standards.
Supporters and rivalries.
Historically, Racing has its roots in southern Strasbourg in the working-class Neudorf, Meinau and Polygone neighbourhoods. In the 1930s, the team was the only one in the area to jump to professional play and, with the help of good results during that decade, it built support all around the town. In Strasbourg like in the rest of France, there is only one pro football club in every city and hence no in-town rivalry, a fact that heavily contrasts with the situation in Great Britain, Italy or Spain. Nowadays, as the only professional football club in Alsace, Racing attracts a large fan base that covers both the Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin départements as well as the eastern part of the Moselle. The fan-base outside of this area is essentially limited to people that, for a reason or another, have a personal link with Alsace. The club also has ties to the other side of the Rhine, especially through a supporter friendship with Karlsruher SC and regular friendly matches during the summer.
On average, the attendance in Ligue 1 has been around 20,000 for a stadium capacity of 29,000. Supporters groups include the "Ultra Boys 90", the "Kop Ciel et Blanc" and the "Club central des supporters". Most of the supporter groups and the most vocal fans in general have elected location in the Kop at the "Quart de Virage Nord-Ouest" (North-West quarter corner). Strasbourg supporters have the reputation to be faithful yet critical. Former captain Corentin Martins has once asserted that the Strasbourg public is "demanding, but fair". Racing is always an emotional topic in Alsace. It is often said that some may love it or hate it, or even both at the same time, but that it leaves no one indifferent.
Racing Strasbourg's main rival is Metz. The clubs compete is what is generally referred as the "Derby de l'Est" ("the Eastern derby") in France, a rather inappropriate term since the two cities are 150 kilometres apart. There is however a significant degree of inter-regional rivalry between Alsace and Lorraine, leading to some acrimony between the fans on both sides. The two clubs met each other in the quarter-finals of the 1995 UEFA Intertoto Cup in what was the first ever match between two French teams in a European competition. Strasbourg won the game 2–0. When Mulhouse was professional, the two sides also nourished a rivalry that persists as far as youth teams are concerned.
Ownership and chairmanship.
Overview.
Racing's history has always been closely intertwined with local business and politics. In the 1930s, the club's jump to professionalism was sustained by car manufacturer Emile Mathis who had his factory just in front of the stade de la Meinau. RCS quickly entered a rivalry with Sochaux, a team that was backed by Mathis' competitor Peugeot. After WW2, Mathis ceased activity and the club had to find other sponsors including the Crédit Mutuel – a large banking institution that has its roots in Alsace and appeared on the club's shirt throughout most of the 1960s and 1970s – as well as the town's municipality. In 1980, André Bord, a prominent local Gaullist politician and former minister during the Charles de Gaulle and Georges Pompidou presidencies, became chairman. Bord could boast his connections in business, political and artistic elites and vowed to make Racing a big name in French football. However, he quickly entered a confrontation with charismatic manager Gilbert Gress that culminated in September 1980 when the announcement of Gress' departure provoked crowd anger and riots scenes during a game against Nantes. The inability for the influential president and the talented manager to get along with each other and the 1980 trauma may explain why Racing was unable to perform lastingly at the top level after the 1979 title.
In 1986, Bord left the professional section and introduced fashion designer Daniel Hechter as his successor. Hechter had previously been banned from pro football following his involvement in the Paris Saint-Germain secret funds scandal but was nevertheless able to re-take a president job at Strasbourg thanks to a sentence reduction. It was the first attempt to bring an outsider to the local context at the club's head, but the experiment ended in failure in 1990 as the club neared bankruptcy. Racing was at that time salvaged by the Strasbourg municipality which took a 49% share of the club but had to relinquish it a few years later as the Pasqua legislation restricted public support to professional sport. In 1997, two projects were competing to buy the municipal share and effectively take control of the club. The first was led by then-president Roland Weller, a local businessman. The second bid was made by American IMG-McCormack Group through its French branch headed by Patrick Proisy. At that time, IMG was trying to develop its activities in European football and had failed the previous year in its effort to buy Olympique de Marseille. The American group presented an ambitious project with an entirely new youth academy as well as plans for a renovated stadium, eventually winning the competition for Racing's ownership for a price of 1.5 million euros. The club became a "Société Anonyme à Objet Sportif" and then a "Société Anonyme Sportive Professionnelle", a status very similar to the general corporate status, albeit with restrictions like the impossibility to enter the stock market and the obligation to keep ties with the original association. Proisy became the chairman of the board with full control over the professional section but not the omni-sport structure that still possessed the club's name and its affiliation to the French Football Federation (FFF). This was evidenced in 2002 when Proisy and Bord, still a chairman of the omni-sport, entered a dispute that led to the inability for the pro players to wear the name "Racing club de Strasbourg" on their jerseys for some time.
Proisy's reign at Strasbourg was fraught with misunderstandings, frustration and poor results on the pitch. The Alsatian public especially resented the fact that Proisy was unwilling to settle in Strasbourg, instead controlling the club's destiny from IMG's offices in Paris. Racing's troubles as well as the town's refusal to finance an extension of the stade de la Meinau to host the 1998 FIFA World Cup provoked heated debate during the 2001 municipal election and eventually became part of the elements that drove to the defeat of Catherine Trautmann. In 2003, the club was bought back by a pool of local investors including Egon Gindorf who became chairman, Patrick Adler, Pierre Schmidt and Philippe Ginestet who all had been club sponsors during the IMG era. The new ownership bought the club for a symbolical euro to an IMG group eager to cut its losses after the death of Mark McCormack but had to cover a 3 million euro deficit to close the 2002–03 budget. It is estimated that Racing lost 15 million euros during the IMG era, mainly due to a dubious recruitment policy.
Thanks to a prudent transfer policy initiated by director Marc Keller and good attendance rates, the new management was able to redress finances but the club's economic situation has remained fragile up to now. In 2004, Gindorf experienced personal and financial difficulties and was willing to scale down his involvement at Racing. It was understood that Philippe Ginestet would become the new chairman at the end of the 2004–05 season. However, this move was opposed by Keller who, in June 2005, clearly announced that he would not work with Ginestet. Keller had in fact been acting as the club's head since 2002 but was only a minor shareholder. He nevertheless was able to mobilise his iconic status with supporters to, at first, block Ginestet's accession to chairmanship, provoking a deadlock that lasted throughout 2005 as the club was looking for an investor. In the fall of 2005, it was announced that Alain Afflelou, owner of the biggest optician in France and a former president of Bordeaux, would be the new owner, but he was eventually out-bid by Ginestet who took control of the club midway through the 2005–06 season, forcing Keller's departure a few months later. Ginestet held a majority share during four years, which he sold in the end of 2009 for a price of €1.6 million. After some speculation, the new owner was identified as Alain Fontenla, a French investment broker based in London. In 2010, Fontenla owned 85%, along with Carousel Finance (15%) a holding named "Racing investissements", which itself owned a majority share (70%) of EuroRacing, the main shareholder (78%) of the club. The other major shareholder of the club was Lohr SA, an industrial group centred on transportation activities.
On 22 June 2023, BlueCo, the consortium which purchased Premier League club Chelsea in May 2022, acquired a majority stake in the club.
Presidential history.
Below is a list of RC Strasbourg's 15 presidents since the start of the professional era in 1933. The president has not always been the real owner of the club. For example, between 1990 and 1997 the municipality was the major shareholder, but it chose to delegate the chairmanships to independent local entrepreneurs.
The 2009–10 season saw a record of five successive presidents. Early into the season, Léonard Specht stepped down from his position, after the sacking of Glibert Gress, whom he had appointed as manager. Philippe Ginestet then re-took the presidency, but left the club when the takeover by the new owners was completed in December. The new owners chose to name Julien Fournier as the new Chief executive but, after some turmoil, Fournier quickly entered a dispute with the new major shareholder, Alain Fontenla. Fournier's contract was terminated in February and he was replaced by Luc Dayan on an interim basis. Only a month later, former Sochaux chairman Jean-Claude Plessis came to replace Dayan.
 "As of 1 February 2024."
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Former players.
RCS does not have an official hall of fame or an all-time XI. Various selections have been made by press and supporters but none has achieved universal respect. 21 players have been capped for France while playing for Strasbourg. The most notable one is Oscar Heisserer who played a record 18 times with the national team while at Strasbourg and was the first Alsatian and first and only RCS player to wear the armband for France. Dominique Dropsy, Léonard Specht and Gérard Hausser also earned more than 10 caps while Marc Molitor is one of the rare examples of a player being capped for the national team while playing in the Division 2. Unsurprisingly, it is during the 1978–1979 title season that Racing had the most players included in the national squad. On 7 October 1978 were a record four RCS players (Dominique Dropsy, Roger Jouve, Francis Piasecki, Albert Gemmrich) on the field for a Euro 1980 qualifying game against Luxembourg. This figure was repeated a month later for a friendly against Spain (Dropsy, Piasecki, Gemmrich and Léonard Specht). Frank Leboeuf and Marc Keller were the last RCS players to earn a cap during the 1995–1996 season. Leboeuf is one of the two former RCS in the French team that won World Cup, the other one being Youri Djorkaeff.
Players to have once played for Strasbourg to have recently played for France include Olivier Dacourt and Richard Dutruel, (both in 2004). Furthermore, current France international midfielder Morgan Schneiderlin is a product of RC Strasbourg's Youth set-up, spending 13 years with the club before moving to Southampton after just five first-team appearances for Strasbourg. Schneiderlin then moved to Manchester United on 14 July 2015 before a move to Everton in January 2017.
With regional feelings still strong in Alsace, the performances of local players logically attract special attention. Seven out of the ten players with the most apparitions for Racing are from Alsace: René Hauss (who holds the record), Léonard Specht, René Deutschmann, Edmond Haan, Gérard Hausser, Jean Schuth and Raymond Kaelbel. Since 1979, there is also a peculiar tradition that every Racing team to win a trophy or reach a final featured a Breton as captain, manager or both. Jacky Duguépéroux captained the 1979 team and won the Coupe de la Ligue in 1997 and 2005 as a manager. The 2001 Coupe de France winning team for itself included Yvon Pouliquen as manager and Corentin Martins as captain. Pouliquen also was the captain for the 1995 final.
Apart from French internationals and Alsatians, there is a strong tradition to have foreign players from Central and Eastern Europe at Strasbourg. The successful Racing team of the 1930s regularly included Austrians both as players and coaches, a tradition that was continued when Ernst Stojaspal played at la Meinau in the 1950s. Other "Mitteleuropa" players fondly remembered include Elek Schwartz, Ivica Osim, Ivan Hašek, Alexander Vencel or Danijel Ljuboja while Russian Aleksandr Mostovoi is the last world-class star to play for Racing to this date. Also, one of the greatest goalkeepers of all times, the Paraguayan José Luis Chilavert who, known for being three times selected IFFHS World's Best Goalkeeper and his free-kick abilities, won the 2001 Coupe de France with the club.
Managers.
Strasbourg has had 47 managers in the professional era, with the holder of the office changing 57 times. This is a record in French football only surpassed by Marseille. Gilbert Gress holds the record for the longest-serving manager at the club, both for a single spell (39 months between. 1977–80, 152 matches) and overall (75 months in three spells, 275 matches). Paul Frantz holds the record for the most spells at Racing with four (73 months overall, 227 matches). Jacky Duguépéroux is the only manager to win two trophies with the club.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1256452" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256452" title="Toulouse FC">
Toulouse FC

French association football club
Football club
Toulouse Football Club () is a French professional football club based in Toulouse. The club was founded in 1970 and currently plays in Ligue 1, the first division of French football. Toulouse plays its home matches at the Stadium de Toulouse located within the city.
"Les Pitchouns" are the current holders of the Coupe de France, and have won the second tier Ligue 2 on three occasions. Toulouse have participated in European competition five times, including in 2007 when they qualified for the UEFA Champions League for the first time. They are currently participating in the 2023–24 UEFA Europa League, following their victory in the preceding year's Coupe de France. 
The president of Toulouse FC is Damien Comolli, who succeeded the French businessman Olivier Sadran who took over the club following its bankruptcy in 2001 which resulted in it being relegated to the Championnat National. The club has served as a springboard for several players, most notably the World Cup-winning goalkeeper Fabien Barthez, international strikers André-Pierre Gignac, Martin Braithwaite and Wissam Ben Yedder
History.
The city was left without a big side in 1967 when Toulouse FC sold its players and place in the French top flight to Paris outfit Red Star, but three years later a new club, Union Sportive Toulouse, rose from the ashes. Adopting red and yellow jerseys, the club started out in Ligue 2 and in 1979 reclaimed the name Toulouse FC. Now wearing purple and white, "Les Pitchouns" gained top-flight promotion in 1982. A side containing Jacques Santini and Swiss forward Daniel Jeandupeux earned a penalty shoot-out victory against Diego Maradona's Napoli in the 1986–87 UEFA Cup, Toulouse's maiden European campaign.
After goalkeeper Fabien Barthez made his breakthrough and moved on, Toulouse were relegated in 1994. They subsequently bounced back and forth between Ligues 1 and 2 before slipping to the third flight in 2001 after financial problems. Toulouse were back in the top flight two seasons later, and in 2007 they finished third to earn a place in the 2007–08 UEFA Champions League third qualifying round. There, Liverpool overpowered them 5–0 on aggregate.
In 2008–09, Toulouse finished fourth in the Ligue 1 table with 64 points, and secured a spot in the new Europa League, while André-Pierre Gignac led all scorers in Ligue 1 with 24 goals and was awarded a call-up to the French national team.
In the 2015–16 Ligue 1 season, Toulouse avoided relegation to Ligue 2 in the last game of the season. With 12 minutes to go, Toulouse were behind to Angers 2–1 and needed a win to survive, and scored two late goals and won the match 3–2. Two years later, they finished 18th and won the promotion/relegation playoff 4–0 on aggregate against Ligue 2's AC Ajaccio.
On 6 January 2020, Toulouse dismissed manager Antoine Kombouaré following the club's 1–0 loss to Championnat National 2 side Saint-Pryvé Saint-Hilaire in the Coupe de France. Under Kombouaré the club had lost ten matches in a row, leading him to be dismissed and replaced by Denis Zanko. On 30 April that year, Toulouse were relegated to Ligue 2 after the LFP elected to end the season early due to the coronavirus pandemic.
On 21 July 2020, RedBird Capital Partners acquired an 85% stake in Toulouse FC. The club achieved promotion back to Ligue 1 by winning the second tier, Ligue 2, in 2022. On 29 April 2023, Toulouse won its first-ever Coupe de France title, defeating Kombouaré's Nantes in the final by a score of 5–1.
It was the city's second title, however, as the former Toulouse FC had won it back in 1957.
Stadium.
Toulouse play their home matches at the Stadium de Toulouse. Built in 1937, the stadium presently has a capacity of 33,150. The stadium was used as a venue for the 1998 FIFA World Cup, 2007 Rugby Union World Cup and UEFA Euro 2016.
Colours.
The violet is a reference to one of two Toulouse nicknames: "la Cité des violettes" (the City of Violets), the second one being "la Ville rose" (the Pink City), which explains the colour of former alternate jerseys. The team's logo displays the gold and blood-red Occitan cross, the symbol of Occitania, of which Toulouse is a historical capital.
Club rivalries.
Derby de la Garonne.
The Derby de la Garonne is a derby match between Girondins de Bordeaux and Toulouse. The derby derives from the fact that Bordeaux and Toulouse are the two major cities in south-western France, both of which are situated on the Garonne River. The consistency and competitiveness of the rivalry developed following Toulouse's return to Ligue 1 after being administratively relegated to the Championnat National in 2001.
 "As of 25 January 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
"As of 11  2023[ [update]]."
Managers.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="12591241" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12591241" title="AC Avignonnais">
AC Avignonnais

French football club
Football club
Avenir Club Avignonnais, known simply as Avignon, was a football club based in the city of Avignon, France. The club notably competed in the Division 1 in the 1975–76 season.
History.
The club was founded in 1931 as Association Sportive Avignonnaise and played professionally from 1942 until 1948. The club was later renamed Olympique Avignonnais in a merger with Saint-Jean and became professional again in 1965.
In 1975, the team was promoted to Division 1, after winning a playoff match against FC Rouen. However, the 1975–1976 season was disastrous, as the club finished bottom with 20 Points, 7 victories, 6 draws, 25 defeats, with 30 goals scored and 80 goals conceded. The club was relegated from Division 2 in 1976 and had to forgo its professional status in 1981 due to financial problems.
The club found itself in the fourth division in 1983–1984, but bounced back to Division 2 after successive promotions from 1989 to 1991. In 1992, the club was renamed Club Olympique Avignonnais after a merger with Sporting Club Avignonais. Relegation to the sixth division (Division d'honneur) followed in 1994. The club was renamed Avignon Foot 84 in 2003.
Source:
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="14626560" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14626560" title="FC Antibes">
FC Antibes

French football club
Football club
Football Club Antibes Juan-les-Pins is a French association football team based in Antibes. The team currently plays at an amateur and regional level but was part of Division 1 for 7 seasons, from its beginning in 1932 to 1939.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1640855" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640855" title="AS Nancy Lorraine">
AS Nancy Lorraine

Football club
Association Sportive Nancy Lorraine (), known as AS Nancy Lorraine, and more commonly as Nancy, is a French football club founded in 1967 and based in Nancy, Grand Est. The club plays its home matches at the Stade Marcel Picot located in Tomblaine in the inner suburbs of Nancy, and currently competes in the Championnat National, the third tier of French football. 
The club was founded in 1910 by Maurice de Vienne under the name of Union sportive Frontière, then was later renamed Association sportive Lorraine in 1928. In 1967, following the collapse of FC Nancy, the club created a professional section and as such changed its name to become Association Sportive Nancy Lorraine. The club currently plays at the Stade Marcel-Picot, a 20,000 seats capacity stadium located in the town of Tomblaine, where its head office is also located. The infrastructures of the training center are located within the forest of Haye business park, in Bois-de-Haye.
The club has won 7 titles until this day: the Coupe de France (1978), the Coupe de la Ligue (2006) and five Ligue 2 champion titles (1975, 1990, 1998, 2005 and 2016). The club also has three participations in European competitions to its credit: one participation in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1979 and two participations in the UEFA Europa League in 2007 and 2008.
In December 2020, Chien Lee, PMG, Partners Path Capital and Krishen Sud acquired AS Nancy Lorraine and Chien Lee became the chairman of the board, replacing Jacques Rousselot who had been in charge since 1995.
ASNL is renowned as a club with a good training center. One of the club's most notable players is Michel Platini, the former president of UEFA. Platini began his career at the club in 1972, playing eight seasons with Nancy. He scored the only goal in the aforementioned Coupe de France final and won two French Player of the Year awards whilst playing with the club. Platini also established himself as a French international while at the club and went on to achieve numerous team and individual accolades after his departure from Nancy. He is considered to be, arguably, the club's greatest player ever and, upon entering the section of the club's official website showing Nancy's greats, a picture of a young Platini is displayed. Can also be cited great players such as Mustapha Hadji, African Ballon d'Or in 1998, his brother Youssouf Hadji, counting more than 300 matches under the colors of the club, Olivier Rouyer and Tony Vairelles. Other players have emerged or illustrated at the club, such as Tony Cascarino, Jean-Michel Moutier, Roger Lemerre, Aleksandr Zavarov, Bernard Zénier, Clément Lenglet and Michaël Cuisance.
History.
Prior to the creation of AS Nancy, the city of Nancy was host to football by FC Nancy and "US Frontière". FC Nancy was formed in 1901, while "US Frontière" was founded in 1910. Both clubs were a part of the "Ligue de Lorraine". FC Nancy continued to play football through the professional transition. The club achieved very little during its 64 years of existence only winning the second division twice in 1946 and 1958. FC Nancy did reach the final of the Coupe de France in 1953 and 1962, however, on both appearances, the club lost to Lille and Saint-Étienne, respectively. In 1965, with the club enduring financial difficulties during the 1963–64 season, mainly due to the club's being abandoned by the city's municipality and its supporters according to its president, Nancy folded shortly before the new season.
The idea of a new professional club in the city was thought of by Claude Cuny in spring 1964 based on amateur "Association sportive Lorraine", formerly known as "Union sportive Frontière". Cuny had previously worked with FC Nancy, but left the club prior to its destruction. Cuny is considered one of the leaders of French football mainly because of his innovative ideas and strategies. After forming Nancy, he created the first youth academy of French football. Prior to the club beginning its life as a football club, Cuny devised a strategy to immerse the club into the city's public. First, he sent out over 18,000 letters and petitions to draw interest to the team. Once the public gained notice, Cuny organised friendly matches to raise funds for the club. After accruing enough money, Cuny sought to turn the club professional, and, despite several setbacks, on 16 June 1967, Nancy were granted professional status and inserted into Division 2, the second level of French football. The club's first manager was René Pleimelding, a former French international who played for FC Nancy. Nancy, subsequently, recruited several former FC Nancy players such as Antoine Redin, as well as players from the region such as Michel Lanini, Gérard Braun and Roger Formica.
In Nancy's inaugural season of football, the club finished tenth in the league table and reached the Round of 16 in the Coupe de France. Two seasons later, the club earned promotion to Division 1 and finished in 13th place in its first season in the league. In 1972, Michel Platini arrived at the club, initially with the club's reserve team. His first full season as a player came in the 1974–75 season whilst the club was playing in the second division, having suffered relegation from Division 1 the previous season. The season was a success for both club and player: Nancy achieved its first major honour winning Division 2, while Platini appeared in 32 league matches and scored 17 goals. In the ensuing three seasons in Division 1, Nancy, led by Platini, Jean-Michel Moutier, Carlos Curbelo, Paco Rubio and Philippe Jeannol, finished in the top ten. Platini won the French Player of the Year award in two of those seasons. In 1978, Nancy achieved its highest honour to date after winning the Coupe de France. In the final, the club faced Nice and defeated its southern foes 1–0 with Platini scoring the lone goal. President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing presented Platini with the trophy to cap off the victory. Nancy's Coupe de France triumph saw the club qualify for European competition for the first time in its short history. The club participated in the 1978–79 edition of the European Cup Winners' Cup and were eliminated in the second round after losing 4–3 on aggregate to Swiss club Servette. The club played most of the season without Platini who was injured.
Platini left the club after the season, however most of the club's nucleus remained. In the team's first season without Platini, Nancy finished in 11th place. In the next three seasons, Nancy finished in the top ten. After the 1984 season, Moutier and Rubio became the last of the club's influential players to depart and Nancy suffered a free-fall finishing in the next three seasons. The implosion concluded after the 1986–87 season when Nancy finished in 19th place, thus falling back to Division 2. The only ray of sunshine for the club during this declining stint was the testimonial match held for Platini on 23 May 1988 following the players' club and international retirement. That evening, fans were treated to an exhibition that featured Platini, Pelé and Diego Maradona.
In the 1988–89 season, Nancy earned promotion back to the first division. However, the club spent the entire decade rotating between Division 1 and Division 2. The club won two second-division titles during this stint and finally earned promotion back to the first division, now called Ligue 1, for the 2005–06 season after winning Ligue 2. In Nancy's first season back in Ligue 1, the club won the Coupe de la Ligue defeating Nice 2–1 in the final. Nancy supporters arrived at the Stade de France courtesy of 11 special trains, while more than 300 buses and thousands of cars from the city also arrived in Paris. The cup victory allowed Nancy to participate in the UEFA Cup with the club eventually making it to the Round of 32 before losing to Shakhtar Donetsk. The first half of the 2007–08 season for Nancy was the club's best ever start to a season in the top division with 35 points after 19 games and sitting in second place. On 4 November 2007, in a match against Bordeaux, the club celebrated its 40th anniversary of existence with a special event involving many of the club's former players, club officials, presidents, and coaches. After a good second half start, Nancy sat in third place on the final match day of the season. However, the club finished one spot short of qualifying for the UEFA Champions League, losing 3–2 to Rennes, while fourth-placed Marseille defeated Strasbourg 4–3 to claim the spot. Nancy still managed to claim the league's best defence, alongside Nice. The 30 goals conceded equalled the club's record achieved in the 1976–77 season. After managing mid-table performances during the following 4 years at the top-flight, the club got relegated in May 2013, finishing only 2 points behind 17th place Ajaccio.
Following their relegation, the club nearly got promoted back to the first division, finishing 4th and 3 points shy behind Caen and a spot to the top-flight. Nancy remained a strong candidate for promotion during the entire 2014–15 season, but ultimately finished 5th, 6 points behind 3rd place Angers.
AS Nancy is the rival of Metz, a city in Lorraine. The match between the two teams is one of the most dangerous encounters in the French football, often classified at the highest level of risk matches because of clashes between supporters of the two camps. This match is a regional derby for the supremacy of a city.
The following year, the club still was a strong candidate for promotion. Finally, on 25 April 2016, after 3 years of absence, the club assured promotion to Ligue 1 with 3 games to spare by beating Sochaux 1–0 on match day 35. On match day 37, they beat Evian 1–0 to clinch the Ligue 2 title, their fifth second division crown after 1975, 1990, 1998 and 2005.
In June 2023, AS Nancy's shareholding was consolidated between two of the owners, Krishen Sud and Chien Lee, who now own almost 100% of the Club.
Home Stadium.
Opened on August 8, 1926, the Stadium originally known as the University Stadium or Essey Bridge Sports Park, was originally intended for the Lorrain University Stadium. Fully devoted to the cause of FC Nancy, Marcel Picot, a hatter installed in the 1930s in the city centre, will become president of the club and leave his name to the compound.
The complete renovation of the Marcel Picot stadium, led by the Bernt-Morillon-Thouveny agency on behalf of the Urban Community, took place between 1999 and 2003. It increased the capacity of the stadium to 20,087 seats and covered. Another expansion project is planned, bringing the stadium's capacity to 32,000 seats.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable former players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Nancy in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1967. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Nancy players, see "
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1640865" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640865" title="Montpellier HSC">
Montpellier HSC

Football club in Montpellier, France
Football club
Montpellier Hérault Sport Club (; ), commonly referred to as Montpellier HSC or simply Montpellier, is a French professional football club based in the city of Montpellier in Occitanie. The original club was founded in 1919, while the current incarnation was founded through a merger in 1974. Montpellier currently plays in Ligue 1, the top level of French football and plays its home matches at the Stade de la Mosson, located within the city. The first team is managed by Michel Der Zakarian and captained by Teji Savanier.
Montpellier is owned by Laurent Nicollin, the son of the late Louis Nicollin, a French entrepreneur, who had been owner since 1974. The club have produced several famous players in its history, most notably Laurent Blanc, who has served as manager of the France national team. Blanc is also the club's all-time leading goalscorer. Eric Cantona, Roger Milla, Carlos Valderrama and Olivier Giroud are other players who have played in Montpellier's colours. In 2001, Montpellier introduced a women's team.
History.
Montpellier was founded under the name Stade Olympique Montpelliérain (SOM) and played under the name for most of its existence. In 1989, after playing under various names, the club changed its name to its current form. Montpellier is one of the founding members of the first division of French football. Along with Marseille, Rennes and Nice, Montpellier is one of only a few clubs to have played in the inaugural 1932–33 season and is still playing in the first division. The club won Ligue 1 for the first time in the 2011–12 season. Montpellier's other honours to date include winning the Coupe de France in 1929 and 1990, and the UEFA Intertoto Cup in 1999.
In the 2011–12 season, Montpellier won its first Ligue 1 title, finishing the season with 82 points, three points ahead of runners-up Paris Saint-Germain. On 20 May 2012, in a game marred by stoppages for crowd violence, John Utaka scored a brace to secure a 2–1 victory over Auxerre and win the Ligue 1 title for Montpellier. Olivier Giroud, who finished the season with 21 goals and 9 assists, was the league's top goal scorer. Despite being tied on goals with Paris Saint-Germain attacker Nenê, he was named the league's top scorer by the Ligue de Football Professionnel due to finishing with more goals in open play.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Management and staff.
Club officials.
Senior club staff
Coaching and medical staff
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1640895" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640895" title="CS Sedan Ardennes">
CS Sedan Ardennes

Football club based in Sedan, France
Football club
Club Sportif Sedan Ardennes, commonly referred to as CS Sedan or simply Sedan (), is a football club based in Sedan, France. The club was formed in 1919 and plays its home matches at the Stade Louis Dugauguez located within the city. Despite finishing 7th in the Championnat National at the end of the 2022-23 season, the club was relegated to the Régional 3 (8th tier) due to financial problems.
History.
The club had its best period of success during the 1950s and 1960s. Sedan won the Coupe de France twice, in 1956 and 1961, and spent the entire decade of the 1960s in the top flight.
In 2012, in spite of being on pace to return to the top division, owner Pascal Urano stopped funding the club. CS Sedan finished in the relegation places for the 2012-13 season and declared bankruptcy, ultimately being demoted two divisions instead of one.
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Retired numbers.
29 - David Di Tommaso, defender (2000–04) - "posthumous honour."
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Sedan in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1919. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club or represented the national team for which the player is eligible during his stint with Sedan or following his departure.
"For a complete list of CS Sedan Ardennes players, see ."
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="16480998" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16480998" title="AS Béziers Hérault (football)">
AS Béziers Hérault (football)

Football club
Association sportive de Béziers was a French association football team playing in the city of Béziers, Hérault. The team was founded in 1911 and was dissolved in 1990, due to financial problems. The team was the football section of successful rugby club AS Béziers Hérault.
Source:
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1693070" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1693070" title="En Avant Guingamp">
En Avant Guingamp

French association football club based in Guingamp
Football club
En Avant Guingamp (, ), commonly referred to as EA Guingamp, EAG, or simply Guingamp (), is a professional football club based in the commune of Guingamp, in France's Brittany region. The club was founded in 1912 and play in Ligue 2, the second tier of French football. The club has appeared in the Ligue 1, the top flight of French football, for 13 seasons, and is known for its relative success given Guingamp's small population of only 7,000 people.
Guingamp are one of only two clubs who have won the Coupe de France while not being in the first division, doing so in 2009, by defeating Rennes, 2–1. They won the same competition in 2014, again with a victory against Rennes, 2–0.
History.
Having been an amateur club for a long time, playing in the regional leagues, the club got promoted three times under the presidency of Noël Le Graët, who took over in 1972. In 1976, Guingamp reached the Third Division (now called Championnat National), and the next season they were promoted to the Second Division (now called Ligue 2), where they stayed until 1993. The club became fully professional in 1984, and in 1990 the Stade de Roudourou was opened, with Guingamp hosting Paris Saint-Germain in the inaugural match.
The club's first major honour was winning the Coupe de France in 2009, the second team in history not from Ligue 1 to win the competition. The team defeated Breton rivals Rennes 2–1 in the final. Also, in 2014, En Avant de Guingamp beat Stade Rennais F.C. 2–0 at the Stade de France. Aside from two years of Coupe de France triumph, the club's only other major feat was winning the 1996 UEFA Intertoto Cup.
The club has played in the French top flight before, having gained promotion only three times: 1995, 2000 and 2013. Their longest stay in the top flight was between 2013 and 2019. Following the 2012–13 season, the club was relegated back to Ligue 2 at the conclusion of the 2018–19 season finishing in 20th place.
Aside from winning the Coupe de France, Guingamp is known for having served as a springboard for prominent players that include Didier Drogba, Florent Malouda, Fabrice Abriel, and Vincent Candela. Managers such as Guy Lacombe, Francis Smerecki, and Erick Mombaerts also used the club as springboards during the infancy of their coaching careers. Guingamp is presided over by Bertrand Desplat. The former president, Noël Le Graët, is president of the French Football Federation. The club has a women's team who play in the Division 1 Féminine, and a reserve team in the CFA2.
In the 2018–19 season, Guingamp reached the Coupe de la ligue final against RC Strasbourg. Guingamp lost the final losing 4–1 on penalties after the match ended goalless during 120 minutes of play.
On 12 May 2019, Guingamp were relegated to Ligue 2 ending a six-year stay in the top division after drawing 1–1 with rivals Stade Rennais F.C.
Stadium.
Guingamp plays its home matches at the Stade de Roudourou in the city. It is unusual for a commune of 7,280 inhabitants to have a professional football club, let alone one that plays in the first tier. Also the stadium has a capacity of 18,000 spectators, roughly 2.5 times the commune's population.
 "As of 2 February 2024."
Players.
Current squad.
First team.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Guingamp in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1912. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Guingamp players, see "
European record.
1 Guingamp won the Final on away goals.
"As of 24 September 2019"
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="17125621" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17125621" title="CA Paris-Charenton">
CA Paris-Charenton

French football club
Football club
Cercle Athlétique de Paris Charenton is a French football club which plays in the cities of Charenton-le-Pont and Maisons-Alfort, Val-de-Marne. The team is a merger between CA Paris (founded in 1892) and SO Charentonnais (founded in 1904). The two merged in 1964.
History.
CA Paris was founded in 1892 as "Nationale de Saint-Mandé", a gymnastic club. In 1896, the football section was founded and took the name of "FC Paris". In 1906, the club changed its name to CA Paris in a merge with "l'Union Sportive de Paris XII" and "l'Athlétic Club". The club won the Coupe de France in 1920 and was runner-up in 1928.
The CA Paris played the first two seasons of Ligue 1 in 1932–33 and 1933–34, finishing last with only ten points in 1934. The team remained in league from 1934 to 1963 (except World War II), when it dropped its professional status in 1963. The team merged with SO Charentonnais in 1964 and now plays at a regional level.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1829614" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1829614" title="FC Martigues">
FC Martigues

French association football club
Football club
Football Club de Martigues, known as FC Martigues or just Martigues, is a French professional football club which plays in the Championnat National, the third level of football in France.
The club plays at the Stade Francis Turcan, which has a capacity of 11,500, in Martigues. Their principal rivals are Istres.
History.
The club was founded in 1921 and played regional football until the early 1970s when they gained promotion to the professional Second Division.
The club's greatest achievement was winning promotion to the First Division in 1993. The club played for three seasons in the top flight, until it was relegated down to Ligue 2 in 1996. A failed attempt to win promotion at once was followed by relegation to the Championnat National (third level) in 1998. Two years later the club won promotion back to Second Division, but only remained at that level for two seasons.
In 2002, the club was relegated again and after another near miss at promotion in 2003, financial problems saw the club go into liquidation and reform in the Championnat de France Amateur. They finished the 2006–07 season in the Championnat National as 14th. They were relegated to CFA in 2007–08 season as 19th in the Championnat National.
The club was promoted back to the Championnat National in 2022, after ten years in lower divisions.
 "As of 31 January 2024"
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1958796" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1958796" title="Le Mans FC">
Le Mans FC

Association football club in France
Football club
Le Mans Football Club (; commonly referred to as Le Mans FC, formerly known as Le Muc) is a French professional football club based in Le Mans. The club was founded in 1985 as a result of a merger under the name Le Mans Union Club 72. In 2010, Le Mans changed its name to Le Mans FC to coincide with the re-modeling of the club, which includes moving into a new stadium, MMArena, which opened in January 2011. The stadium is based in the interior of the Circuit de la Sarthe, a famous circuit in the city.
The club were controversially relegated from 2019–20 Ligue 2 when the season was terminated early due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
History.
 were founded in 1900, but it was not until 1908 that a football club existed within it. Le Mans qualified for the in 1910, but were heavily overturned by Saint-Servan. Gaining a huge reputation up to World War I, Le Mans SC plunged into obscurity by World War II before joining the war league in 1942.
The football section of was founded in 1903.
The current club was formed as a result of a merger between Union Sportive du Mans and Le Mans Sports Club, on 12 June 1985. Upon its foundation, former football player Bernard Deferrez was installed as manager. Le Mans UC spent the majority of its infancy in Ligue 2. In the 2003–04 season, the club achieved promotion to Ligue 1 for the first time, but were immediately relegated. Le Mans returned to the first division for the 2005–06 season and successfully remained in the league for the next four seasons. The club suffered relegation back to Ligue 2 in the 2009–10 season. Midway through the campaign, on 2 December 2009, Le Mans announced that it was changing its name from Le Mans Union Club 72 to Le Mans FC.
Le Mans moved to the MMArena midway through the 2010–11 season, comfortably in the promotion spots for a return to Ligue 1, but a bad run sees them finish 4th, missing promotion on goal difference. The failure to achieve promotion is costly, as the club sees its payroll limited by the DNCG. Many players left, and relegation was only narrowly avoided. The club survived by appeal an attempt by DNCG to relegate them to Championnat National. The following season they were relegated on the field, and a long summer of legal battles saw them liquidated and reforming in Maine (province) Division d'Honneur as an amateur club.
Promotion to Championnat de France Amateur 2 was achieved on the first attempt, and promotion from that division was only narrowly missed in 2014–15 and 2015–16. On the third attempt, promotion to the new Championnat National 2 was obtained in 2016–17, when Le Mans finished as one of the best runners up in the competition. Le Mans was promoted for the second season in a row winning Group D and being promoted to the 2018–19 Championnat National, the club would achieve a third consecutive promotion after successfully overcoming Gazélec Ajaccio in the Ligue 2 relegation play-off final with a 3-2 aggregate score, swapping places with the Corsican club who, only three years before had been members of the top-flight themselves.
The club were in 19th place in Ligue 2 when the season was terminated early due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the club supporting an LFP proposal which would have seen Ligue 2 operate temporarily with 22 clubs, meaning they would stay in the division, the FFF ruled on 27 May 2020 that they were to be relegated to Championnat National.
Players.
Current squad.
"As of 1 February 2024."
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Le Mans and its predecessors in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1985. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Le Mans players, see "
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1958800" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1958800" title="ES Troyes AC">
ES Troyes AC

Football club based in Troyes, France
Football club
Espérance Sportive Troyes Aube Champagne (ESTAC), commonly known as Troyes, is a French professional association football club, based in Troyes, who play in Ligue 2, the second level of France's football league system, and plays its home matches at the Stade de l'Aube. It was founded in 1986, as the third professional club from the city, after AS Troyes-Savinienne and Troyes AF. The club is part of the City Football Group.
History.
Previous clubs in Troyes (1900–1979).
The first ever football club in Troyes was created in 1900, as Union Sportive Troyenne (UST). In 1931, it merged with the AS Savinienne, a club from the suburbs of Troyes, to form the Association Sportive Troyenne et Savinienne (ASTS). The newly formed club became professional in 1935, and joined Ligue 2.
The club reached Première Division in 1954–55, under the guidance of manager and former international player Roger Courtois (1952–1963), with players such as Abdelaziz Ben Tifour, Marcel Artelesa or Pierre Flamion. It constituted one of the more glorious times for the club, as they reached the Coupe de France final in 1956, against CS Sedan Ardennes, which they went on to lose 3–1. The same day, the youth team of the club won the Coupe Gambardella, the French Youth cup. That very same year, the club failed to keep its place in French top flight, and was back in Division 2. It finally succeed in reaching the Première Division again in 1960, but only lasted one season, and was relegated in 1961. The club had some financial difficulties, and had to leave professional football at the end of the 1962–63 season, which they finished 17th out of 20. They continued for four more seasons at regional level, under the guidance of former ASTS player Jacques Diebold, before disappearing.
Shortly after without any major club in Troyes, a new one was created in 1967, under the name Troyes Omnisports, still at regional level. It renamed itself Troyes Aube Football (TAF) in 1970 as it took back professional status, and was admitted to play in the Third Division. They were promoted to the Second Division after just one year. For their first season in Second division, under the lead of Pierre Flamion, they finished second, but failed to win promotion, as there were three Second division groups that season. They finished first next year, in 1973, and lost in the Champions final between the Champions of the two new groups against RC Lens. The club had its longest consecutive run in Ligue 1, as they stayed five consecutive seasons in the top flight, from 1973 to 1978. It was however a difficult spell, as it struggled each season against relegation. Pierre Flamion left in 1975, and was replaced by René Cédolin, former Stade Rennais manager. Its best position was 15th out of 20 in 1976–77. Even though they had some very good players, such as striker Gérard Tonnel (1972–1975, 107 games, 69 goals in Ligue 1 and Ligue 2), right-back René Le Lamer (1973–1978), keeper Guy Formici (1970–1978) and Yugoslavian star, winger Ilija Petković (1973–1976). They were finally relegated in 1978, finishing 19th. They suffered back to back relegations finishing 17th in the second division and dropped to the third division. This led to the club becoming bankrupt and merging with Patronage Laïque de Troyes, leaving Troyes without a professional Football Club yet again.
Current club ATAC/ESTAC (1986–present).
After the death of the second professional club from Troyes, some people tried to rebuild a new club, which could be able to come back to professional status. At first, in 1979, just after the disappearing of the TAF, they merged the amateurs teams the TAF with the Patronage Laïque de Troyes, creating the PL Foot, once again under the guidance of Jacques Diebold. The club only managed to reach the Fourth division in 1984, but became relegated after just one season, finishing 17th. To build a more lasting club, Maurice Cacciaguerra, Angel Masoni and others decided to create the Association Troyes Aube Champagne (ATAC), taking the place of the PL Foot in Division d'Honneur, French sixth division, at regional level.
The new club won the championship in its first season, and was promoted to Fourth division in 1987. After just three seasons, they finished first of the Fourth Division in 1990, and reached the Third Division. Despite being well listed during the next three seasons, the club failed to gain promotion to the Second division. Due to the reform of French football leagues in 1993, the club was transferred to the newly formed Nationale 2, the new fourth level of French football. New president Angel Masoni called Alain Perrin to take the lead of the team. He was to become the most successful manager ever in Troyes, and stayed nine years, from 1993 to 2002. In his first year, he won the Nationale 2, and ATAC was promoted to the Nationale 1 in 1994. The following year, Troyes finished 10th, before finishing 2nd in 1995–96, and was promoted to Ligue 2: for the first time since 1979, Troyes were playing professional football.
Troyes first season was very difficult, as they finished 20th out of 22 teams, only keeping its place in Deuxième division due to the bankruptcy of FC Perpignan and FCO Charleville. The next two seasons were much more successful, they finished 5th in 1997–98, and 3rd in 1998–99, due to the presence of players more used to this level, such as Frédéric Adam, Richard Jeziersky, David Hamed, Samuel Boutal, fans favourite Slađan Đukić and local players, such as captain Mohammed Bradja. Troyes took the lead during the first part of the season. Even if the second part was more difficult, the team finished third, only on goal average, after a last win against AS Cannes. But most importantly Troyes was promoted to Ligue 1, 21 years after its last season at this level.
In Troyes' first season in Ligue 1 in 1999–2000, the team finished in 14th place, thereby avoiding relegation. At the end of the season, the name ATAC was changed to ESTAC due to the complaints of a French discount supermarket chain having the same name. The glory days came in the next two seasons, as they twice finished seventh, qualifying them for the first time in their history for the Intertoto Cup in 2001 and 2002. In 2001, with players Jérôme Rothen, Rafik Saïfi, Tony Heurtebis, Fabio Celestini and Nicolas Goussé in the side, they defeated Newcastle United in an epic Intertoto Cup second leg final, which finished 4–4 at St James' Park.
After a first round qualification in UEFA Cup over Slovakian MFK Ruzomberok (6–1; 0–1), Troyes lost to Leeds United 4–5 on aggregate despite winning the second leg 3–2, and failed to qualify to the third round. The following year, they beat Spanish side Villarreal, drawing 0–0 in the first leg and winning the second leg 2–1. However, the result was voided as Troyes fielded a disqualified player, David Vairelles. UEFA disqualified ESTAC, and Villarreal took their place instead. The sacking of new manager Jacky Bonnevay and the nomination of Faruk Hadzibegic in January did not save Troyes. They finished at the bottom of the Ligue 1, and were relegated to Ligue 2.
Thanks to the takeover of new President Thierry Gomez, Troyes avoided bankruptcy to finish 10th the following season. In 2004, Jean-Marc Furlan, who had spectacular results in Coupe de France with amateur side Libourne Saint-Seurin, was appointed manager. In his first season, the club secured promotion by finishing third, largely due to the great performances of two young strikers on loan, Sébastien Grax from AS Monaco and Bafétimbi Gomis from AS Saint-Etienne. The club played some attractive football, in the style of former manager Alain Perrin. The club maintained itself in Ligue 1 in 2005–06, but failed the following season (2006–07), finishing in 18th position. Furlan left at the end of the season, and Denis Troch became the new manager. After failing to win promotion, with Troyes taking only 4 points in the last 11 games of the season and finishing in 6th place despite being in the top three during the majority of the season, Troch was sacked at the conclusion of the season. Ludovic Batelli was appointed next season, but had to struggle against relegation. He was sacked in April 2009 and caretaker manager, Claude Robin, previously Troyes' director of formation, did not manage to avoid relegation.
With the club finding itself once again in financial difficulties, Thierry Gomez stepped down as president and was replaced by Daniel Masoni, son of former president Angel Masoni. In July 2009, Daniel Masoni engaged Patrick Rémy to replace Robin as manager. Rémy succeeded in taking Troyes back to Ligue 2, finishing third in the Championnat National in 2010. However, after a disagreement with president Masoni, Remy quit in June 2010 and Jean-Marc Furlan returned to manage the club. The club stayed in Ligue 2 in the 2010–11 season, finishing 16th. After a slow start at the beginning of the new season, results improved as the season went on. Things improved greatly and Troyes found themselves challenging for promotion. They achieved this in the 37th game of the season, with a win over AS Monaco, on 11 May 2012. Crucial wins over arch-rivals Sedan, with a goal in the last minute to right back youngster Djibril Sidibé, and then a few weeks later against Clermont, who was third at the time, allowed Troyes to climb into the top three.
Producing some of the most exciting football of the league, with players such as Marcos or Mounir Obbadi, a strong defence led by Rincón, Julien Outrebon, Matthieu Saunier and Stephen Drouin with the left back Fabrice N'Sakala and right back Djibril Sidibé, both products of the Academy, as well as midfielders Julien Faussurier and captain Eloge Enza Yamissi actually did what nobody expected at the beginning of the season. They had a strong second half of the season, with only 4 defeats, 5 draws and 10 victories (with just one loss in the 10 last games of the season). Troyes found themselves back in Ligue 1 five years after their last stint, and just two season after playing in the third division.
In the 2015–16 Ligue 1 season, Troyes were relegated to Ligue 2 after finishing last on the table winning only three games all year and were humiliated in one match when they lost 9–0 at the hands of Paris Saint-Germain. On 29 May 2017, Troyes were promoted back to Ligue 1 at the first time of asking after defeating Lorient 2–1 on aggregate in the playoff/relegation match. On 20 May 2018, Troyes were relegated back to Ligue 2 after just one season in the top flight, finishing second from bottom.
In the 2018–19 Ligue 2 season, Troyes finished in third place on the table. Troyes would go on to lose the playoff semi final against Lens 2–1 after extra time.
On 3 September 2020, City Football Group (CFG), a subsidiary of Abu Dhabi United Group, announced that they had purchased a majority stake in Troyes AC.
In the 2020–21 Ligue 2 season, Troyes were promoted back to Ligue 1 as champions of the division. They were relegated back down following the 2022–23 Ligue 1 season.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
On loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Famous past players.
"For a complete list of former Troyes AC players with a Wikipedia article, see ."
Stadium.
Stade de l'Aube is a multi-use stadium in Troyes, France. It is currently used mostly for football matches, by Troyes AC. The stadium is able to hold 20,400 people and was built in 1956.
In June 2013, the Stade de l'Aube is the first stadium to build its pitch using the AirFibr hybrid turf technology, developed by the French company Natural Grass.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="1973841" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973841" title="Paris FC">
Paris FC

Football club based in Paris, France
Football club
Paris Football Club (), commonly referred to as Paris FC or simply PFC, is a French professional football club based in Paris, that competes in the Ligue 2, the second tier of French football. Paris FC play their home matches at the Stade Charléty, which is located in the 13th arrondissement of Paris.
Founded in 1969, the club merged with Stade Saint-Germain to form Paris Saint-Germain in 1970. In 1972, the club split from Paris Saint-Germain resulting in the current Paris FC. Unlike its counterpart, which has gone on to establish a solid foundation, Paris FC has struggled to establish itself, having spent the majority of its existence playing in the amateur divisions. The club's highest honour to date was winning its group in the Championnat de France amateur in 2006. Paris FC last played in Ligue 1 in the 1978–79 season.
Though Paris FC have struggled domestically, the club has served as a springboard for several youth players who have gone on to have successful professional careers. Notable players who started their careers at the club includes Jean-Christophe Thouvenel, Mamadou Sakho, Tijani Belaid, Aymen Belaïd, Gabriel Obertan and Ibrahima Konaté. Sakho, Konaté, and the Belaïd brothers have since become senior internationals for their respective national teams, while Thouvenel went on to win a gold medal at the 1984 Summer Olympics. Manager Roger Lemerre started his managerial career with the club before leading France to titles at UEFA Euro 2000 and the 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup.
History.
In an effort to re-launch professional football in the city of Paris, Paris Football Club was founded on 1 August 1969. The objective of the club was to be playing in the first division by 1970. An attempted merger with CS Sedan Ardennes was refused so Paris went looking in the second division and, subsequently, merged with Stade Saint-Germain to form Paris Saint-Germain, the professional club that plays in Ligue 1. The current incarnation of Paris FC came into being in 1972 when the club split from Paris Saint-Germain after coming under pressure from the capital city's mayor, who refused to support a non-Parisian club (the club had originally been situated in nearby Saint-Germain-en-Laye). As a result, a bitter split occurred and both Paris FC and Paris Saint-Germain remained as separate football club with the main agreement being that Paris FC had the right to keep the splitting entity's first division and professional status, as well as all the professional players. Paris Saint-Germain were, on the other hand, administratively relegated to the third division and given all the former entity's amateur players.
At the beginning of the 1972–73 season, Paris were playing in the first division hosting matches at the Parc des Princes. Two seasons later, the club was relegated to the second division, which coincided with Paris Saint-Germain's rise to top-flight and the installation in the Parc des Princes. After four years of playing in Division 2, Paris returned to the first division for the 1978–79 season. However, the season was a difficult one and resulted in the club falling back to Division 2 after one season. Paris FC have since yet to return to the top-flight league of France.
In 1983, Paris FC, then led by the industrialist Jean-Luc Lagardère, merged with Racing Club de France. While Racing remained in the first division, the remaining entity that was PFC was administratively relegated to the fourth division. Due to having limited resources, Paris fell to the Division d'Honneur after one season and, subsequently, spent four seasons in the fifth division before returning to Division 4 in 1988. Another promotion the following season saw Paris earn a place in Division 3. Paris remained in the division for 12 years becoming inaugural members of the Championnat National in the process. In 2000, the club finished 17th and were relegated to the Championnat de France amateur. Paris spent six years in the league before returning to National for the 2006–07 season. After a successful 2014–15 campaign, the club gained promotion to Ligue 2, the French second division, alongside its local rival Red Star F.C. However, it would stay in Ligue 2 for only one year and was relegated back to the Championnat National for the 2016–17 season.
In the 2016–17 season, Paris FC made the playoff/relegation final against US Orleans but lost over the two legged game on aggregate. Paris FC were then administratively promoted to Ligue 2 after SC Bastia were demoted to the third division for financial irregularities. For the 2017/2018 Ligue 2 season, Paris FC finished 8th in the table but at one stage occupied the promotion places.
In the 2018–19 season, Paris finished 4th and contested the play-offs against RC Lens, but lost the penalty shoot-out after a 1–1 draw.
On 30 April 2021 Paris FC, along with Angers, were handed a transfer ban by FIFA for violation of regulations regarding relay transfers in August 2020. The ban was effective for the summer 2021 transfer window.
Bahraini investment.
In July 2020, a new strategic economic partner joined Paris FC to support the club's development and ambitions: the Kingdom of Bahrain. The deal was completed with a capital investment to improve the finances of the club, giving the kingdom 20 percent of the equity. Pierre Ferracci, the founder of the December 1983 established "Alpha Group" () which owns its subsidiary the consulting and auditing firm "Alpha-Secafi", remained the main shareholder with a contribution of 77 percent. In addition to this investment, the Kingdom of Bahrain became the main sponsor of the club.
The Council of Paris was to vote on renewing the yearly subvention that the City of Paris allocates to the Paris Club, several non-profit organizations based in Paris, including ADHRB called for the City of Paris to hold a dialogue on the abuse of human rights and death penalty practiced in the Kingdom of Bahrain, a 20% share holder of the club. The Council of Paris accused the kingdom of distracting the general public from its abuses via a popular sport like football, committing a practice known as ‘sportswashing’. The council also demanded the release of detainees put on death row by Bahrain on the basis of confessions acquired via torture methods. As one of the oldest partners of the Paris FC club, Mairie de Paris was called for pursuing its commitment towards the defense of human rights.
The NGOs had highlighted the human rights records and the sportswashing attempts of Bahrain, under which the club's jerseys promoted “Victorious Bahrain” and the grounds of Charléty stadium had “Explore Bahrain” advertisements. Such publicity was considered inappropriate, as Bahrain was seen as a repressive regime. Following the appeal from the NGOs, the Council of Paris voted an amendment for the allocation of a subsidy of €500,000 to the club. In the amendment, all the issues were kept in mind to ensure the inclusion of an “organization of additional actions to raise awareness of human rights and fight against all forms of discrimination”. Besides, the mention of private financial partnerships in the amendment was believed to prompt a withdrawal of the “Explore Bahrain” advertising panels in the Charléty stadium.
Supporters.
The club used to be the biggest and most well supported in the city, with over 20,000 supporter members at the time of the club's formation.
In 1970 the club merged with Stade Saint-Germain to form Paris Saint-Germain F.C., but quickly left the merger. In the 1973 season, the first after leaving, the club still averaged an attendance of 13,202. However, after that, the two clubs' fortunes varied drastically, and as PSG's popularity rose, PFC fell into obscurity and languished in the amateur divisions. It is only when it reached the third tier its popularity started growing again, however the club currently only attracts in the region of a few hundred to very low thousands fans for each match.
In 2000s the club used to have a supporter group called "Blue Wolves" founded in 2008. Officially apolitical, they tended to have right-wing views. However they were disbanded in 2010 after several hooligan incidents occurred, the last of which during a match against FC Gueugnon.
They were replaced by the group "Old Clan", founded in 2010, and ultras group "Ultras Lutetia" founded in the summer of 2014. After the expulsion of PSG fans from Parc des Princes in 2010, PFC has attracted some of that support, particularly from the left-wing group "Virage Auteuil", but also a few from right-wing group "Boulogne Boys".
The fans have a friendship with fans of SR Colmar, in the past also fans of Stade Reims.
The club has rivalries with fellow neighbours US Créteil and Red Star F.C. with whom they contest the Parisian derbies. Although both clubs are officially apolitical, due to Red Star fans left-wing political tendencies and PFC's past right-wing political tendencies, the derby is particularly fierce. The derby with US Créteil is a geographical one as both clubs play in the southern suburbs of Paris.
 "As of 31 January 2024."
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Paris and its predecessors in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1969. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Paris players, see "
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
"As of 1st August 2020"
Notes.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="222981" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222981" title="AS Monaco FC">
AS Monaco FC

Association football club in Monaco
Football club
Association Sportive de Monaco Football Club, commonly referred to as AS Monaco (), ASM or Monaco, is a Monégasque professional football club based in Fontvieille, Monaco. Although not in France, it is a member of the French Football Federation (FFF) and currently competes in Ligue 1, the top tier of French football. Founded in 1918, the team plays its home matches at the Stade Louis II.
Its training center is situated in neighboring France, in la Turbie.
Despite not being a French club, Monaco is one of the most successful clubs in French football, having won eight league titles, five Coupe de France trophies and one Coupe de la Ligue. The club also played in European football a number of times, and were runners-up in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1992 and the UEFA Champions League in 2004.
The club's traditional colours are red and white, and the club is known as "Les Rouge et Blanc" ("The Red and Whites"). Monaco is a member of the European Club Association. In December 2011, two-thirds of the club was sold to an investment group led by Russian oligarch and billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev. With Rybolovlev's financial backing, the club quickly returned to Ligue 1 and won the 2016–17 Ligue 1, their first league title in 17 years.
Status.
Unlike several other European microstates, Monaco has never organized a domestic league and has never sought separate membership in either UEFA or FIFA. As a result, AS Monaco has no domestic league to play in its home country, resulting in it being expatriated into the French league system. AS Monaco is a full member of said French league pyramid, enabling it to represent France in European competitions. There are several other expatriated football clubs in operation around Europe, although AS Monaco is unique in that it represents a nation not a member of the international organizations. Although Vaduz among other Liechtenstein clubs play in the Swiss league system due to Liechtenstein not having a league, those clubs do have a domestic cup in their home country and qualify for European football that way. Two other microstates in Europe have or had teams playing abroad, Andorra and San Marino, although those clubs are separate from existing domestic league infrastructures.
History.
Early history.
AS Monaco FC was founded on 1 August 1919 as a unification of numerous local clubs based in France and the principality. Then, the multiple sports club of the Association Sportive de Monaco was founded on 23 August 1924. AS Monaco FC was then absorbed by the latter and became the football section of the enlarged Monegasque sporting club.
The club's early years were spent in the amateur regional divisions of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, rising rapidly between the leagues in the 1920s. In 1933, Monaco were invited by the French Football Federation to turn professional. The Monégasques' first year of second division football ended in failure, however, as they were relegated to the amateur leagues the following year. By 1948, Monaco re-acquired its professional status and returned to the French second division; they subsequently consistently finished in its upper echelons, with this sustained effort resulting in promotion to the French first division for the first time in 1953.
1960–1986: Domestic successes.
In 1960, Monaco coach Lucien Leduc led the club to its first professional trophy, the Coupe de France, beating Saint-Étienne 4–2 in extra time. This initial success was bettered in the following year with the club winning the French Championship for the first time in its history, qualifying for the European Cup. Leduc subsequently led the club to its first League and Cup Double in 1963. Upon Leduc's departure in 1963, Monaco endured a barren run, entrenched in the middle half of the league for the best part of the next decade and alternating between the first and second divisions after 1963. In 1975, Jean-Louis Campora, son of former president Charles Campora, became chairman of the club. In his second season, he brought back Leduc, who immediately won the club promotion to the first division and won them the championship the following year in 1978. Leduc subsequently left the club again in 1979, to be succeeded by Lucien Muller and Gérard Banide, both of whom were unable to halt the club's decline.
The early 1980s saw a steady stream of successes in national competitions. Monaco won a title almost every other year; the Coupe de France in 1980 and 1985, the French Championship in 1982, was Coupe de France finalist in 1984. In the 1985–86 season, Monaco hammered Bordeaux 9–0, one of the biggest wins in club history.
Disappointingly for Monaco fans, the club could not translate its domestic leadership into European success. Up to this point, Monaco had never passed the first round of any European competition. Monaco lost to Dundee United (1981), CSKA Sofia twice (1982 and 1984) and Universitatea Craiova (1985).
1990s: Wenger and Tigana.
In 1986, former Ajax manager Ștefan Kovács, who succeeded Rinus Michels and honed his Total Football ideals with the Dutch champions, came out of a three-year "retirement" to manage Monaco, but even he could not bring them success. With the club facing a second barren spell, they signed Arsène Wenger, who had hitherto been relatively unknown, managing Nancy without much success. Wenger's reign saw the club enjoy one of its most successful periods, with several inspired signings, including George Weah, Glenn Hoddle, Jürgen Klinsmann, and Youri Djorkaeff. Youth team policies produced future World Cup winners Emmanuel Petit, Lilian Thuram and Thierry Henry. Under Wenger, they won the league in his first season in charge (1988) and the Coupe de France in 1991, with the club consistently competing in the latter stages of the European Cup and regularly challenging for the league title. The club could have had even greater success in this period, as it emerged in 1993 that bitter rivals Marseille had indulged in match fixing and numerous improprieties, a view that Wenger had long held."[not mentioned by source]" In 1994, after being blocked by the Monaco board from opening discussions with German powerhouse Bayern Munich for their vacant managerial post after being shortlisted for the role, Wenger was released from the club, several weeks after the post had already been filled.
After Wenger's departure, the club went on to record two further league championships; under Jean Tigana in 1997 and under Claude Puel in 2000. However, as the decade came to an end, rumours were surfacing that the club was facing numerous financial difficulties. In 2003, these financial problems came to a head. Despite finishing second in the league, the club was relegated to Ligue 2 by the French Professional League for amassing a €50 million ($68 million) debt. Whilst this was reduced on appeal to a ban on purchasing players, it was enough to force President Jean-Louis Campora, who had been in charge for 28 years, to step aside. He was replaced by Pierre Svara, an administrator considered to be close to the principality's princely family but with no footballing experience.
The following season saw remarkable success on the field, given the club's financial strife. The team, coached by former France/ national team captain Didier Deschamps and featuring stalwarts such as Fernando Morientes, Ludovic Giuly, Jérôme Rothen and Dado Pršo, finished third in Ligue 1 and enjoyed a remarkable run to the final of the UEFA Champions League, beating Real Madrid and Chelsea along the way. However, despite the on-field success, the 2003–04 season was the club's worst financial year in its history. Within 12 months, Deschamps had left as coach and Svara had been replaced by Michel Pastor.
Relegation and takeover.
With Francesco Guidolin hired to replace Deschamps, one of Pastor's first tasks was to hold on to the players who had turned the club into one of the best in Europe. However, he failed to convince them to stay and their replacements were unable to replicate previous successes. Guidolin lasted only one year, before being replaced by assistant coach Laurent Banide who, in turn, only lasted a year, before being replaced by Brazilian Ricardo Gomes. In 2008, after four years at the club featuring six coaches and only mid-table finishes, Pastor left the club amid severe criticism of his management skills.
In 2008, Jérôme de Bontin, a leading shareholder of the club since 2003, took charge of the club, promising a complete shake-up. Under his reign as president, the club brought in players such as Park Chu-young and Freddy Adu, but they did not find much success on the pitch, going through a torrid season and only managing a mid-table finish. De Bontin resigned at the end of the season, replaced by banker Étienne Franzi and a new board of directors.
In July 2009 Ricardo Gomes was replaced by former Cannes and Rennes coach Guy Lacombe, inheriting a youthful squad featuring numerous highly lauded youth team prospects, including Cédric Mongongu, Serge Gakpé, Vincent Muratori, Frédéric Nimani, Nicolas N'Koulou, Park Chu-young, Yohan Mollo and Yohann Thuram-Ulien. Lacombe led Monaco to eighth place in Ligue 1 in his first season in charge, but he was unable to replicate this performance in his second season and was sacked in January 2011, with Monaco in 17th place in Ligue 1. He was replaced by former coach Laurent Banide, who was unable to turn around the club's fortunes; Monaco finished the 2010–11 season in 18th, thus becoming relegated to Ligue 2.
In December 2011, 66.67% of the club was sold to the Russian oligarch and billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev (via a trust under his daughter Ekaterina's name) while the club were bottom of Ligue 2. Banide was sacked due to this poor start to the 2011–12 season, and was replaced by Italian manager Marco Simone. Although he lifted the club to eighth by the end of the season, the club's board targeted promotion for the upcoming season and so fired him and appointed his compatriot Claudio Ranieri, whose attacking style of football saw the club score 64 goals in the 2012–13 season. With the club only losing four times, Monaco finished the season as champions, earning promotion back to Ligue 1. Using Rybolovlev's funds, Monaco were one of the biggest spenders in Europe in 2013, spending roughly £140 million, including a club-record £50 million for Radamel Falcao from Atlético Madrid and £40 million for James Rodríguez from FC Porto. Monaco finished in 2nd place in Ligue 1 in the 2013–14 season and Ranieri was replaced by Leonardo Jardim. The following season, Monaco cut expenses, selling Rodriguez to Real Madrid for €75m and loaning Falcao to Manchester United. Despite the high-profile departures, Monaco finished in 3rd place in Ligue 1 and made it to the quarter-finals of the Champions League, defeating Arsenal in the Round of 16 before exiting at the hands of Juventus. Top-scorer from the 2013–14 season Anthony Martial, who managed 12 goals in all competitions, departing for Manchester United in the summer for a fee of €60m, the highest fee paid for a teenager in football history. This, combined with the sales of Geoffrey Kondogbia, Layvin Kurzawa, Yannick Carrasco, Aymen Abdennour, Lucas Ocampos and other, saw the Monegasque club earn over €180m in the transfer window.
Ligue 1 triumph and aftermath (2016–present).
Monaco won the Ligue 1 title on 17 May 2017, defeating AS Saint-Étienne 2–0. Radamel Falcao and Kylian Mbappé scored 30 and 26 goals respectively to ensure a first Ligue 1 title in 17 years. Monaco went undefeated for the last 20 games of the season, winning 18 of those 20 games.
In the 2016–17 UEFA Champions League, Monaco staged a comeback in the Round of 16, losing the first leg 5–3 to Manchester City before beating the English side 3–1 at home to win on away goals. Monaco then defeated Borussia Dortmund 6–3 on aggregate before going down 4–1 over two legs to Juventus. In the summer, Kylian Mbappé went to rivals PSG on loan, with obligation to buy for a fee of €180m, making it the second-highest transfer fee in history after Neymar. Teammates Bernardo Silva and Benjamin Mendy were sold to Manchester City for over €100m combined and Tiémoué Bakayoko was sold to Chelsea for €40 million. Monaco managed to finish 2nd in the 2017–18 Ligue 1, 13 points behind league winners PSG. In the summer of 2018, Fabinho was sold to Liverpool for €42 million.
Jardim was replaced as coach by Thierry Henry in October 2018 after a poor start to the season. Henry was suspended from his job in January, and Jardim returned days later. Monaco finished the season in 17th, avoiding relegation playoffs by 2 points. In December 2019 Jardim was fired for the second time in 14 months, and former Spain manager Robert Moreno was appointed in his place.
In 2019–20, the COVID-19 pandemic suspended and then curtailed the football season. Monaco ended the season in 9th. Moreno was sacked in July, and replaced by former Bayern Munich manager Niko Kovač, who finished the following season in third position with 78 points and winning 24 matches from 38 (63%). Kovač left at the start of the year 2022, being replaced by Philippe Clement.
Stadium.
Monaco played at the original Stade Louis II since its construction in 1939. In 1985, the stadium was replaced with the current iteration, built on a nearby site consisting of land reclaimed from the Mediterranean, which has become a recurring feature of the stadium's seaside surroundings. The stadium is named after the former Prince of Monaco Louis II and houses a total of 18,523 supporters. The Stade Louis II is noted for its nine iconic arches and has hosted numerous athletic events and European Cup finals. Every August from 1998 to 2012, it hosted each instance of the annual UEFA Super Cup, but from 2013 onward, UEFA decided to rotate the event throughout various stadiums.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
 "As of 31 January 2023"
Reserves.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
 "As of 20 February 2024"
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="2237150" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2237150" title="AS Cannes">
AS Cannes

Football club
Association Sportive de Cannes Football (; commonly referred to as AS Cannes or simply Cannes) is a French association football club based in Cannes. The club was formed 1902 as a sports club and currently plays in the Championnat National 3, the fifth division of French football. In 2023 the club was promoted to Championnat National 2, the fourth division. Cannes plays its home matches at the Stade Pierre de Coubertin, located within the city. The team is managed by Jean-Noël Cabezas.
On June 26, 2023, it was announced that AS Cannes will become part of The Friedkin Group, which also includes AS Roma football club. The Friedkin family will purchase a majority of the club’s shares, and Ryan Friedkin will become the new president of Association Sportive Cannes Football SAS, which will manage the National 2 men’s team. The Sports Association, which is in charge of the women's section and amateurs, will hold 2% ownership and be chaired by Anny Courtade.
Despite playing football on the French Riviera, a popular and relaxing tourist destination, Cannes have had a lackluster existence. The club was one of the founding members of the first division of French football and finished runners-up in the league's inaugural season. The club's highest honour to date was winning the Coupe de France in 1932. Cannes last played in Ligue 1 in the 1997–98 season and are currently serving the longest stint of any club in the National division, having been in the league since the 2001–02 season. The club has most notably served as a springboard for several prominent French football players such as Zinedine Zidane, Patrick Vieira, Johan Micoud, Gaël Clichy, Sébastien Frey and Jonathan Zebina.
Cannes is known as "Les Dragons" ("The Dragons") and incorporates the nickname into a multitude of club's fixtures, most notably its crest. On 21 May 2010, the club unveiled its new logo to its supporters. The new logo is similar to the club's previous logo, but is more dynamic with the club's city name and foundation being displayed on the badge. The dragon, which is a focal point of the club, is also given a more up-to-date design.
History.
Association Sportive de Cannes was founded on 4 August 1902 by English sportsman Herbert Lowe and a group of friends. Lowe was installed as the club's president. During the infancy of the club, in addition to association football, Cannes also practised the sports of competitive swimming and athletics. The club also wore a black and blue combination kit before switching to its current red and white stripe following the club's merger with "Club Sportif de Cannes" in 1905. Under the leadership of Louis Grosso, a local furniture dealer, the football section developed its structures. In 1920, Cannes were playing in the Ligue du Sud-Est, a regional league under the watch of the French Football Federation (FFF). While playing in the league, Cannes developed rivalries with Nice and Marseille. Nice and Cannes contest the derby match that is known as the Derby de la Côte d'Azur. In 1921, the club inaugurated the Stade Municipal de Cannes and celebrated the opening by defeating Spanish club Espanyol 4–0. During the 1920s, Cannes successfully reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France on two occasions. Led by French internationals such as Maurice Cottenet, Charles Bardot, and Raoul Dutheil, Cannes were regular participants in the latter rounds of the prestigious cup competition. In 1932, the club finally won the competition after defeating RC Roubaix 1–0 at the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir in Colombes, courtesy of a goal from captain Louis Clerc.
In July 1930, the National Council of the FFF voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. Cannes, along with most clubs from the south, were among the first clubs to adopt the new statute and, subsequently, became professional and were founding members of the new league. In the league's inaugural season, Cannes finished runner-up to champions Olympique Lillois after losing 4–3 in the ultimate match on 14 May 1933. Cannes had originally finished second in its group behind Antibes, but were declared champions of the group after Antibes was disqualified from the league for suspected bribery. Cannes remained in Division 1 for a decade before falling to Division 2 in the 1948–49 season after finishing last in the league table.
Cannes returned to the top division for the 1965–66 season and spent an unforgettable campaign in the league finishing second from bottom, thus returning to Division 2. It took another 20 years before the club returned to the first division for the 1987–88 season. During this time, Cannes had a young playmaker by the name of Zinedine Zidane in its ranks. In the club return to the first division, Cannes finished in 11th place. In the ensuing two seasons, Cannes remained mid-table finishing 12th and 11th, respectively. However, in the 1990–91 season, the club surprised everyone by finishing in fourth place, which gave the club qualification for the UEFA Cup. Along with Zidane, PSG loanee striker Amara Simba and the presence of experienced players like Luis Fernandez, Cannes overclassed many of their higher-rated counterparts. Unfortunately, in the following season, with the departure of Simba and Cannes having to combine its focus on both the league and Europe, the club finished in a disastrous 19th-place position. The club also suffered elimination in Round of 32 in the UEFA Cup. The resulting relegation led to the departure of Zidane and numerous others who were being courted by Division 1 clubs.
Though the departure of Zidane and others did hurt the club, Cannes still had a solid core of players, which included veterans André Amitrano, William Ayache, Franck Durix, and Adick Koot and youngsters Johan Micoud, Patrick Vieira, David Jemmali and Laurent Macquet. The group effectively lived up to club expectations by finishing second in its group in the second division. Due to having more points than the second-place finisher in the other group, Cannes were back in Division 1. In the club's return, Cannes finished in a respectable ninth-place position for the 1994–95 season under manager Safet Sušić. The next season didn't start well, with Sušić getting sacked in September 1995. Ultimately, Cannes finished 14th that season. In the off-season heading into the 1996–97, Vieira departed the club for Italy, Durix ventured to Japan, and Ayache retired. Cannes struggled to replace the departed players and, subsequently, finished in 15th place for the season. Midway through the campaign, Micoud left the club for Bordeaux. After the season, Jammeli followed suit and also joined Bordeaux. The resulting departure of all the club's youth talent ultimately led to its downfall with Cannes finishing dead last in the 1997–98 season. Since the club's relegation in 1998, Cannes have yet to return to the first division of French football.
On 1 July 2014, Cannes were officially excluded from professional football in France after a ruling from the Direction Nationale du Contrôle de Gestion relating to the club's financial situation. For the 2015–16 season, the remnants of Cannes played in the Division of Honor, in the Mediterranean Regional League of the French football system.
 "As of 29 December 2022"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Cannes in league and international competition since the club's foundation as a football club in 1909. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Cannes players, see "
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="23455318" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23455318" title="Club Français">
Club Français

Football club
Club Français was a French association football club based in Paris which was founded in 1890. Club Français won the 1896 USFSA Football Championship and the 1931 Coupe de France.
In 1900 the USFSA elected players from Club Français to represent France at the Summer Olympics. The team (wearing the USFSA representative uniform) won the silver medal after two matches played.
 
Original kit
Club Français was the first club to be established by French citizens, rather than by foreign expatriates. It took part in all the competitions organised by the USFSA, gaining a reputation as one of the most important clubs in the country between 1896 and 1904, during which it won a domestic league, one Dewar Cup and six Manier Cups.
In 1915, the club left USFSA to join the Ligue de Football Association, winning a Challenge de la Renommée competition during the World War I. Affiliated to French Football Federation since 1919, Club Français competed in the Paris Football League, winning two championships in 1929 and 1930 and a Coupe de France in 1931.
Club Français became professional in 1932, competing in the first ever Ligue 1 season, but the team was relegated to Division 2 when the season concluded. Due to financial problems, the club abandoned the second division championship in 1934. Without a home venue, Club Français merged with Dionysian Athletic Football Club based in Saint-Denis. The new club renamed "Athletic Football Club Dionysian-Club", leaving also its traditional pink and black colors.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="26624072" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26624072" title="List of Ligue 1 clubs">
List of Ligue 1 clubs

The following is a list of clubs who have played in Ligue 1 at any time since its foundation for the 1932–33 season to the current season. A total of 74 teams have played in Ligue 1.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="2776808" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2776808" title="Grenoble Foot 38">
Grenoble Foot 38

Football club
Grenoble Foot 38, commonly referred to as simply Grenoble or GF38, is a French association football club based in Grenoble. The club plays its home matches at the Stade des Alpes, a sports complex based in the heart of the city, and wears white and blue.
The original incarnation of the club was founded in 1911 and, in 1997, was formed into the club that exists today as a result of a merger. Grenoble currently plays in Ligue 2, the second level of French football, after having gone into bankruptcy and relegation to the fifth level of French football in 2011.
History.
The club was founded in 1911 as "Football Club de Grenoble". In 1997, a merger of "Olympique Grenoble Isère" and "Norcap Olympique" led to the "Grenoble Foot 38" incarnation. Olympique Grenoble Isère played in Ligue 1 in the 1960–61 and 1962–63 seasons.
In 2004, Grenoble Foot was acquired by Index Holdings, a Japanese mobile software company, therefore becoming the first French football club to have foreign owners. The price of the deal was around €2 million. The new owners invested in the Stade des Alpes, a new ground with an initial capacity of 20,000 which opened in February 2008. Grenoble finished the 2007–08 Ligue 2 season in third place, thus returning to Ligue 1 for the first time since 1963.
In the 2008–09 Ligue 1 season, Grenoble finished 13th. However, after losing their first eleven games of the following season, they were eventually relegated with six games remaining amidst severe financial problems. In the same season, Grenoble reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France for the only time, defeating Monaco 2–0 at home in the quarter-finals on 18 March 2009, and losing by a single goal to Rennes in the semi-finals on 21 April.
The professional football club was liquidated in July 2011 with debts of €2.9 million, and relegated administratively to Championnat de France Amateur 2, the fifth tier. Index provided false financial statements during their ownership of the club.
Now an amateur side, Grenoble won promotion from Championnat de France Amateur 2 at the first attempt in 2012, and were champions of the 2016–17 Championnat de France Amateur, returning to Championnat National for the 2017–18 season. They secured their second successive promotion to Ligue 2 on 27 May 2018, after an aggregate play-off victory over Bourg-en-Bresse.
 "As of 12 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Managers.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="2802390" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2802390" title="Stade de Reims">
Stade de Reims

French association football club
Football club
Stade de Reims () is a French professional football club based in Reims. The club was formed in 1910 and plays in Ligue 1, the top level of Football in France, having been promoted from Ligue 2 in 2018. Reims plays home matches at the Stade Auguste Delaune and are managed by William Still.
Reims is one of the most successful clubs in French football history having won six Ligue 1 titles, two Coupe de France trophies, and five Trophée des champions titles. The club has also performed well on European level having finished as runners-up in the 1956 and 1959 editions of the European Cup, and winning the Latin Cup and Coppa delle Alpi in 1953 and 1977, respectively. However, since the 1980s, Reims have struggled to get back to their zenith. The club hovered between Ligue 2 and the Championnat National for over thirty years after their relegation from the top flight in 1979. In 2012, they were promoted back to Ligue 1, were relegated again in 2016, but returned two years later.
Reims is viewed as a legendary club within French football circles, not only due to its domestic and European accolades, but its contribution towards the France national team through the 1940s and 1950s. They were largely responsible for the first Golden Generation of French football with Reims players Roger Marche, Raymond Kopa, Just Fontaine, Jean Vincent, Robert Jonquet, Armand Penverne, Dominique Colonna, and Roger Piantoni in the team that reached the semi-finals at the 1958 FIFA World Cup (third place).
History.
Stade de Reims was founded in 1910 under the name "Société Sportive du Parc Pommery" under the guidance of Marquis Melchior de Polignac, a Frenchman who later went on to serve on the International Olympic Committee. The club adopted its current name on 18 June 1931.
Despite the country adopting professional football in 1932, Reims remained an amateur club until 1935 after the club won the Championnat de France amateur under the leadership of Scotsman Billy Aitken. The club reached Division 1 for the first time in the 1945–46 season, the first championship following the conclusion of World War II. During the same year, the club promoted defender Robert Jonquet to the senior team and signed Roger Marche from Olympique de Charleville. Together, the two went on to become, arguably, the club's most famous players in its history.
Reims won its first Division 1 championship in 1949. Led by a talented backline of Marche, Jonquet, and Armand Penverne, as well as midfielders Albert Batteux and Michel Leblond, and an under-rated striker trio of Pierre Flamion, Pierre Sinibaldi, and Pierre Bini, Reims won the league by a single point over Lille. The following season, the club won the Coupe de France defeating Racing Paris 2–1 in the final.
After the season, manager Henri Roessler departed the club and longtime player Batteux took the reins. The team's subsequent rise in the sport led to the signings of Raymond Kopa and Raoul Giraudo. In 1953, Reims won its second league title winning the league by four points. That same year, the club won the Latin Cup becoming the first French football club to attained the honour. The victory was cited as a coup for France after the country finished three straight years as runners-up in the competition. After the 1954 season, Marche left to play for the Racing team in Paris. In 1955, Reims won its third title in six seasons. The championship led to the club's qualification for the newly created European Cup.
In the inaugural edition of the European Cup, Reims reached the final where the team was defeated 4–3 by Spanish club Real Madrid. Reims controlled the match from the outset scoring two goals in the first ten minutes. However, two first half goals by Alfredo Di Stéfano and Héctor Rial for Madrid cancelled out Reims' early attacks. In the second half, Reims took the lead through Michel Hidalgo, but within minutes, the match was levelled courtesy of a goal from Marquitos. Real's winner in the 79th minute ended Reims' hopes of winning the first edition of the European Cup. In the following season, Reims lost prominent midfielder Kopa to Madrid, but still were able to recruit French internationals Just Fontaine, Jean Vincent, Roger Piantoni, and Dominique Colonna to the team. After early struggles, the additions paid off with the club winning its third title of the decade in the 1957–58 season. The team also won the Coupe de France after beating Nîmes Olympique 3–1 in the final, thus achieving the double.
In the 1958–59 edition of the European Cup, Reims returned to the final to face, for the second time, Real Madrid. Aside from Kopa switching sides and the arrival of Fontaine, Colonna, Piantoni, and Vincent to Reims, the line-ups were nearly identical to the previous meeting. However, an undeterred Madrid, who had already won the competition three times, cruised through to a victory with a convincing 2–0 win. After the season, Penverne departed the club. The team was, however, boosted by the return of Kopa who, subsequently led the team to its fifth league title in 11 seasons in 1960.
Following the season, Jonquet retired from international football and left Reims for Strasbourg. He was followed by Giraudo and Leblond. The departures failed to hinder Reims' performances domestically as the team won the league in 1962. The championship capped an amazing career for Just Fontaine, who, subsequently, retired from football. In the ensuing season, which was longtime manager Albert Batteux's last, Reims finished runner-up to AS Monaco in the league and, the following season, shocked many by finishing 17th, which resulted in the club falling to the second division. The relegation led to the departures or retirements of many of the players who were a part of Reims' dynastic run in the 1950s; all except for Kopa who remained with Reims until 1967.
Reims returned to top-flight for the 1966–67 season after two seasons in the second division. However, the stint proved short with Reims finishing 19th. In 1970, the club returned to top-flight and remained in the league for nearly a decade. Reims' best performance in the league during its nine-year stint was finishing 5th in the 1975–76 season. Reims were relegated in 1979 and didn't return to the first division of French football for 33 years. In the ensuing season in Division 2, Reims was limited financially and was forced to field a much younger team during the campaign.
Despite the return of former popular player Carlos Bianchi as manager during the mid-1980s, the club failed to return to Division 1. Reims did surprise many by reaching the semi-finals of the Coupe de France in back-to-back seasons in 1987 and 1988. As the years wore on, the club's financial situation began to take a turn for the worse and, in 1991, Reims was administratively relegated to Division 3 after its failure to find a buyer to help alleviate the club's debt, which had exceeded over ₣50 million. In October 1991, the club underwent liquidation and changed its name to "Stade de Reims Champagne FC". The club spent the 1991–92 season in Division 3 and were, surprisingly, declared ineligible to compete in the league ahead of its final league match in May 1992 after a judicial liquidation resulted in the stoppage of the club's activities. In the ensuing months, all aspects of the club (its records, trophies, etc.) were auctioned off. (Upon the club's re-introduction in 1992, a new French law restricting alcohol advertising banned their old logo, which included a bottle of wine on top of a football; the club had no formal logo until 1999, when the old club name was restored.)
Reims was reborn in July 1992 under the name "Stade de Reims Champagne". The club began play in the Division d'Honneur and spent two seasons in the league before earning promotion to the Championnat National. Reims spent the final years of the century playing in National and the Championnat de France amateur. In November 1996, most of the club's items that were sold in the 1992 auction were re-acquired under the assistance of the Alain Afflelou retail chain. In July 1999, the club changed its name back to "Stade de Reims" and, after three years, were rewarded with professional status after earning promotion back to Ligue 2.
The club's return to Ligue 2 in 2002 was brief. Reims finished bottom of the league. In the next season playing in National, Reims won the league returning to Ligue 2. The club spent the next five seasons playing in the second division failing to finish in the top half of the table in every campaign. In the 2008–09 season, Reims were relegated from Ligue 2 and, like its previous relegation, responded by returning to the league after one season in National after finishing 2nd. Reims finished Ligue 2 as 10th in 2010–11 season. In the 2011–12 season, Reims finally finished the league as runner-up and returned to Ligue 1 after 33 years.
On 14 May 2016, Reims were relegated to Ligue 2 after a four year stay in the top flight. On 16 August 2016, Real Madrid played a friendly against Reims to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the 1956 European Cup final which both teams were involved in. Real Madrid won 5–3. On 21 April 2018, Reims were promoted back to Ligue 1 after a two year absence finishing first and claiming the Ligue 2 title.
In the 2018–19 season, Reims finished in 8th place, defeating champions Paris Saint-Germain 3–1 in the final game of the year. In the 2019–20 season, Reims were ranked in the 6th place, to qualify to the 2020–21 UEFA Europa League, and to play their first match in European competitions since 13 March 1963 against Feyenoord, which ended 1–1 in the 1962–63 European Cup. In the 2020–21 Ligue 1 season, Reims finished 14th on the table.
 "As of 15 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
 "As of 23 August 2023"
Reserve team.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Stade de Reims in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1910. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="3208972" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3208972" title="Clermont Foot">
Clermont Foot

Football club based in Clermont-Ferrand, France
Football club
Clermont Foot 63 (Occitan: "Clarmont d'Auvèrnhe"; commonly referred to as Clermont Foot or simply Clermont) is a French professional football club based in Clermont-Ferrand, France. As of the 2023–24 season, it competes in Ligue 1. The first incarnation of the club was formed in 1911 and the current club was created in 1990 as a result of a merger.
The club plays its home matches at the Stade Gabriel-Montpied located within the city. Between 2014 and 2017, Clermont was managed by Corinne Diacre, the first woman to manage a men's professional football team. In 2021, the club achieved promotion to Ligue 1 for the first time in its history.
History.
The club started in 1911 under the name Stade Clermontois. Despite little league success in the early days, they reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France during the 1945–46 season. Their professional status was repealed after the 1946–47 season due to financial difficulties. The club became professional again in 1966. 1984 saw an expansion, with Stade-Clermontois and AS Montferrand merging to form Clermont-Ferrand Football Club (CFC). The club was placed in the third division.
The club was later renamed "Clermont Foot Auvergne", having to start again in the Division Honneur. After 13 years, Clermont Foot got promoted multiple times, from the Division Honneur up to Ligue 2 in 1993. During these 13 years of success, the club had numerous successes in the Coupe de France. One notable cup run was in 1997, when the Auvergne club eliminated three professional sides, Martigues, Lorient and then Paris Saint-Germain, before succumbing to Nice.
The club won the Championnat National in 2007, being promoted to Ligue 2 again, from which they had been relegated in 2006.
In 2014, Clermont became the first French professional men's team to appoint a female manager when they appointed Helena Costa. Less than a month after taking charge, Costa quit her role, and was replaced by another woman, Corinne Diacre, who would go on to train the French women's team.
Clermont were promoted to Ligue 1 for the 2021–22 season for the first time in their history, having achieved promotion to the league after finishing second in the 2020–21 edition of Ligue 2.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Retired numbers.
14 - Clément Pinault, defender (2008–09) – "posthumous honour"
Notable former players.
"For a list of former Clermont Foot players, see .
 "As of 1 September 2017"
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="3558390" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3558390" title="Racing Club de France Football">
Racing Club de France Football

Association football club in France
Football club
Racing Club de France Football (, also known as Racing Paris, RCF Paris, Matra Racing, Racing Club, or Racing) is a French association football club based in Colombes, a suburb of Paris.
Racing was founded in 1882 as a multi-discipline sports club, and is one of the oldest clubs in French football history. The team plays in the Championnat National 2, the fourth level of French football. Racing is managed by Guillaume Norbert and hosts its home matches at the Stade Lucien-Choine, a smaller stadium next to the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir in Colombes.
Racing Club de France, founded in 1882, was a founding member of Ligue 1. The club has won one Ligue 1 title (in 1935–36) and five Coupe de France titles (currently the joint fourth-highest total). Racing also played in the Union des Sociétés Françaises de Sports Athlétiques-sanctioned league, France's first championship league. The club debuted in the league in 1899 and won the championship in 1907 after finishing second in 1902 and 1903. The club holds the Ligue 1 record for most goals scored during a 38-match season with 118 goals in 1959–60.
Notable players include Roger Marche, Oscar Heisserer, Thadée Cisowski, Raoul Diagne, Luis Fernández, Maxime Bossis, David Ginola, Luís Sobrinho, Pierre Littbarski, Enzo Francescoli, Alfred Bloch, and Rubén Paz. Diagne spent a decade with the club (1930–1940) and, in 1931, was the first black player on the France national team. He played in the 1938 FIFA World Cup with Abdelkader Ben Bouali, his Racing teammate who was one of the first North African players on the national team. From 2009 to 2012, the club moved to nearby Levallois-Perret after reaching a financial agreement with the commune.
History.
During the 1900 Summer Olympics, Racing Club de France hosted the athletics events at Croix-Catelan Stadium (the club's previous home). Racing's zenith was the 1930s and 1940s, when the club won Ligue 1 in 1936 and the Coupe de France in 1936, 1939, 1940, 1945 and 1949. The club was also successful in the early 1960s, finishing second in the first division in 1961 and 1962. However, Racing was a focal point of the financial crisis affecting French football during the mid-1960s. The club's financial struggles resulted in its relegation to the lower divisions.
In 1982, businessman Jean-Luc Lagardère wanted to build a team of stars and invested in the club as a second major club in Paris (with Paris Saint-Germain). Although he considered a merger of Paris FC and Racing, the Racing management refused due to a lack of detailed information on PFC finances. Lagardère bought the Paris FC (incurring a debt of more than four million francs) and renamed it "Paris Racing 1". Lagardère invested in experienced players in 1982 and 1983.
Lagardère, determined to lead his club to the European Cup draws in 1987, hired Portuguese coach Artur Jorge after Jorge's victory in the European Cup with FC Porto. He completed the team with Gérard Buscher and Pascal Olmeta. However, the club fell on hard times and attendance declined. During the late 1980s, Racing lost 300 million francs.
The club, relegated to the amateur levels, sought firmer financial footing. In December 2008, Georgios Kintis tried unsuccessfully to buy the club. Before the 2009–10 season, Racing reached a financial agreement with the city of Levallois. The club's association and support from the commune resulted in a name change to "Racing Club de France Levallois 92". Despite assistance from Levallois, Racing was relegated to the Championnat de France amateur 2 by the DNCG in July 2010 after it was determined that the club had a €500,000 debt. On 21 November 2010, Racing Levallois and UJA Alfortville announced plans to merge for the following season. In 2012, the club returned to Colombes as Racing Club de France Colombes 92. The club achieved promotion in the 2021–22 Championnat National 3 season to reach Championnat National 2 where they currently compete in Group A.
2022–present: Return in Championnat National 2.
For the 2023–24 season, RC France will play their matches at Stade Alphonse Le Gallo due to the renovation of their original home ground, Stade Yves du Manoir.
Players.
Current squad.
As of 18 August 2022
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Past players.
The following players have represented Racing in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1882. They have played in at least 100 official matches for the club, or achieved prominence elsewhere. For a complete list of RCF Paris players, see .
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="357488" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357488" title="Paris Saint-Germain F.C.">
Paris Saint-Germain F.C.

French football club
Football club
Paris Saint-Germain Football Club (), commonly referred to as Paris Saint-Germain, Paris, Paris SG or simply PSG, is a professional football club based in Paris, France. They compete in Ligue 1, the top division of French football. As France's most successful club, they have won over 40 official honours, including eleven league titles and one major European trophy. Their home ground is the Parc des Princes located in the 16th arrondissement of Paris near the commune Boulogne-Billancourt.
The Parisians were founded in 1970, following the merger of Paris FC and Stade Saint-Germain. PSG won their first major honour, the French Cup, in 1982 and their first Division 1 title in 1986. The 1990s was among the most successful periods in the club's history; they claimed a second league title, three French Cups, two French League Cups, two French Super Cups and the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1996. After suffering a decline in fortunes during the 2000s, the Red and Blues have enjoyed a revival since 2011 with increased financial backing, achieving unparalleled dominance in domestic competitions, winning multiple league titles and national cups. PSG have also become a regular feature in the UEFA Champions League, reaching their first final in 2020.
PSG have the most consecutive seasons playing in France's top flight and are one of two French clubs to have won a major European title. They are the most popular football club in France and one of the most widely supported teams in the world. PSG's home kit colours are red, blue, and white, and their crest features the Eiffel Tower and a fleur-de-lis. Paris have a longstanding rivalry with Marseille; the duo contest French football's most notorious match, "Le Classique".
Since 2011, Paris Saint-Germain have been majority-owned by Qatari government-backed investment fund Qatar Sports Investments, which currently holds 87.5% of the shares. American investment firm Arctos Partners owns the remaining 12.5%. PSG are the richest club in France and one of the wealthiest in the world. PSG currently have the third-highest revenue in the footballing world with annual earnings of €802m according to Deloitte, and are the world's seventh-most valuable football club, worth $4.21 billion according to Forbes.
History.
Creation and split (1970–1973).
In the summer of 1970, an ambitious group of businessmen decided to create a major team in the French capital. Guy Crescent and Pierre-Étienne Guyot chose to merge their virtual side, Paris FC, created in 1969, with Stade Saint-Germain of Henri Patrelle after the team from Saint-Germain-en-Laye, 15 km west of Paris and founded in 1904, won promotion to Division 2. However, the three men were stuck with the financial feasibility of the project until they met Real Madrid president Santiago Bernabéu. He told them that starting a crowdfunding campaign was the best solution to establish a new team. 20,000 people backed the project and Paris Saint-Germain were formed on 17 June 1970. Guyot was elected the club's first president a few days later. For the first time in French football history, the fans had financially contributed in the making of a club. The merger was made official following the creation of the club's association on 12 August 1970. PSG retains this day as their foundation date.
Paris FC contributed with the financial backing, while Stade Saint-Germain provided the sporting infrastructure, from the Division 2 status to the Camp des Loges training center, as well as the manager Pierre Phelipon and most of the players, including Bernard Guignedoux, Michel Prost and Camille Choquier. PSG further strengthened their squad with the signing of Jean Djorkaeff, captain of the French national team. PSG's first official game was a 1–1 league draw away to Poitiers on 23 August 1970. Guignedoux scored the club's first ever goal from a free-kick. The club went on to clinch promotion to Division 1 and claim the Division 2 title in its inaugural season.
PSG's first top-flight season ended with a safe 16th place, meaning they would stay in Division 1 next year, but behind the scenes the club was in a delicate financial situation. Back in September 1971, the Paris City Council offered 850k francs to pay the club's debt and save its place in the elite, demanding PSG in return to adopt the more Parisian name "Paris Football Club." Crescent, who had replaced Guyot as club president before the start of the season, was in favor of the name change, but Patrelle was against it. The disagreement led to Crescent's resignation in December 1971, handing the presidency to Patrelle. The latter tried to persuade the council to reconsider their position, but they remained inflexible and the club split on 1 June 1972, a few days after the last match of the campaign. Backed by the council, Crescent re-formed Paris FC and remained in Division 1, while the PSG of Patrelle were administratively relegated to Division 3, thus losing professional status.
Top-flight return and Parc des Princes move (1973–1978).
Paris Saint-Germain really took flight with the arrival of fashion designer Daniel Hechter as chairman of the management committee in June 1973. Besides offering his financial support to the club, he also designed the team's classic home outfit. Hechter then shocked the national game ahead of 1973–74 by appointing French legend Just Fontaine as sporting director.
Robert Vicot's men finished second in Group B, four points behind Red Star, qualifying for the promotion play–offs against Valenciennes. PSG lost 1–2 away to Valenciennes, but PSG recorded an incredible 4–2 comeback at the Parc des Princes, thus achieving promotion to Division 1 and regaining its professional status abandoned two years earlier. Overwhelmed by emotion, Fontaine collapsed on the lawn and was then carried by the players in celebration. Since then, PSG have always played in the first tier of French football.
PSG played their first game at the Parc des Princes during this campaign. It was against fellow Parisian side Red Star on 10 November 1973. PSG won 3–1 and Othniel Dossevi scored the club's first goal at the stadium. The Parisians also began their tradition of brilliant Coupe de France runs, reaching the quarterfinals after beating Metz at the Parc in front of 25,000 spectators (2–1; 4–1 on aggregate).
In an ironic turn of events, Paris FC were relegated to Division 2 at the same time as Paris Saint-Germain moved up to the top flight in 1974, leaving their home stadium, the Parc des Princes, in the hands of their estranged Parisian brothers. Since then, the Parc has been the home of PSG. With promotion to Division 1 also came a change of command. Daniel Hechter, then chairman of the management committee, took over as club president in June 1974 following the resignation of Patrelle. He named Francis Borelli as vice-president.
Under Hechter's tenure, the Parisians failed to win any silverware in the 1970s but began their tradition of brilliant Coupe de France runs, established themselves in Division 1, and attracted several prestigious players, including Jean-Pierre Dogliani, Mustapha Dahleb and Carlos Bianchi. After Hechter was banned for life from football by the French Football Federation in January 1978, for running a ticketing scheme at the Parc des Princes, Francis Borelli, who had been vice-president until then, became the new boss of the Île-de-France club.
First major honours and decline (1978–1991).
Following the arrival of manager Georges Peyroche in November 1979, the club established itself as a top-half team and then welcomed its first major honour when the Parisians reached their first French Cup final in 1982. Up against the great Saint-Étienne of Michel Platini at the Parc des Princes, Nambatingue Toko opened the scoring for PSG following a good cross from Ivica Šurjak. Saint-Étienne reacted and Platini equalized to send the game to extra-time. Platini then doubled his personal account, giving the Greens the lead. The Parc des Princes faithful no longer believed in their team when Dominique Rocheteau, after yet another assist from Šurjak, scored an unexpected equalizer in the last seconds of the match. PSG fans invaded the field in joy, while club president Francis Borelli kneeled and kissed the lawn of the Parc. Following an interruption of 30 minutes, the penalty shootout sealed PSG's coronation. Dominique Baratelli stopped Saint-Étienne's last attempt and Jean-Marc Pilorget scored the winning penalty for the capital side. This success opened the doors to Europe, where PSG made an impressive continental debut in reaching the quarterfinals of the 1982–83 European Cup Winners' Cup.
On the domestic scene, results were just as satisfying. PSG captured their first podium finish, coming in third place, and repeated the feat in the 1983 Coupe de France Final, this time against Nantes. Recently crowned French champions, the Canaries were headed for the league-cup double, leading at the break after overturning Pascal Zaremba's early strike. But PSG managed their own comeback in the second half as Sušić equalized and then assisted Toko for the winning goal (3–2). The campaign ended on a sad note, though, as Georges Peyroche left the club.
Three years later, under the guidance of manager Gérard Houllier, PSG claimed their maiden league crown in 1985–86. They dominated the championship from start to finish thanks in big part to the likes of Joël Bats, Dominique Bathenay, Luis Fernandez, Dominique Rocheteau and Safet Sušić, all of whom made up the backbone of the team. The victory away to Toulouse on Matchday 3 meant PSG sat at the top of the table for the first time ever, a spot they never relinquished, going a memorable 26 matches without defeat towards the title.
The follow-up to the league title was not as glorious though. Defending champions PSG finished the league in seventh place, suffered an early exit from the French Cup and were knocked out by Czech minnows Vítkovice in the first round of a disappointing European Cup debut. The following year, PSG avoided relegation on the final match of the 1987–88 season thanks to a dramatic 0–1 win away to Le Havre. Highly indebted, the club briefly bounced back, fighting for the 1988–89 league crown with Marseille, before going into decline.
Canal+ takeover and golden era (1991–1998).
The takeover by television giants Canal+ in 1991 revitalised Paris Saint-Germain as they became one of the richest clubs in France. Canal+ wiped out PSG's huge debt and appointed Michel Denisot, journalist on the channel, as club president in place of Francis Borelli. Now enjoying serious investment, the Red and Blues were able to set their sights steadily higher: they had to qualify for European competitions in their first season and become French champions within three years. In consequence, Canal+ increased the club's budget from 90 to 120 million francs in order to build a strong squad for the 1991–92 season. The revolution began with the appointment of renowned coach Artur Jorge, famous for leading Porto to the 1986–87 European Cup trophy. The club then embarked on a spending spree, signing Brazilian stars Ricardo and Valdo as well as proven French players Paul Le Guen, Laurent Fournier, Patrick Colleter and prolific Liberian striker George Weah.
The 1992–93 season also marked the beginning of "Le Classique", the rivalry between Paris Saint-Germain and Marseille, as both teams battled each other on the field for the 1992–93 French Division 1 crown. PSG finished runners-up after losing both games against Marseille. In the second match between the two clubs, only three days after winning the 1992–93 UEFA Champions League, league leaders Marseille welcomed closest challengers PSG in a match that would determine the title. After Marseille won their fifth consecutive championship, Bernard Tapie and Marseille were found guilty of match-fixing, in what became known as the French football bribery scandal. The French Football Federation stripped Marseille of their title and offered it to second-placed PSG, who refused it because club owners Canal+ thought that claiming the trophy would anger their subscribers back in Marseille. As a result, the 1992–93 title remained unattributed, with Canal+ even refused letting the capital club participate in next year's UEFA Champions League after UEFA excluded Marseille from the competition. Instead, Monaco, who finish third in Ligue 1 took the Champions League spot instead.
Considered the club's golden era, the Parisians won nine trophies and reached five consecutive European semi-finals during the 1990s, including their first UEFA Champions League last-four appearance and two at the same stage of the UEFA Cup. PSG's crowning glory came in the 1996 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup Final with legend Luis Fernandez now as coach. Bruno Ngotty scored the only goal of the match to defeat Rapid Wien and make Paris the second French club to ever clinch a major European tournament and the youngest club in history to win a European title at 26 years of existence. The following season, PSG finished runners-up in the 1996 UEFA Super Cup and 1997 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup Final. On the domestic scene, results were just as satisfying, with Paris celebrating a second league title, three French Cups, two French League Cups and just as many French Super Cup wins.
Crisis mode and relegation battles (1998–2011).
PSG then went into decline following years of mismanagement. In the summer 2000, PSG spent heavily on new players signing Nicolas Anelka, Peter Luccin and Stéphane Dalmat as part of the "PSG Banlieue" project of its shareholder Canal+, with the goal of winning Ligue 1 and performing a solid UEFA Champions League campaign but it was a failure. In 2003, the club faced a massive financial loss with a deficit of €65 million, leading Canal+ to fire Luis Fernandez as coach and Laurent Perpère as president and replacing them with Vahid Halilhodžić, who became the new coach and Francis Graille the new president. The club's form dwindled as they slipped further down the table and eventually, a split from owners Canal+ became inevitable.
At the start of the 21st century, PSG struggled to rescale the heights despite the magic of Ronaldinho and the goals of Pauleta. Five more trophies arrived in the form of three French Cups (including one against "Le Classique" arch-rivals Marseille in 2006), one French League Cup and one UEFA Intertoto Cup, but the club became better known for lurching from one high-profile crisis to another.
The French premium television channel sold the club to Colony Capital in 2006. The situation, however, only got worse and PSG spent the 2006–07 and 2007–08 campaigns staving off relegations. The latter was the most dramatic. Marred by poor results and fan violence, Paris avoided the drop on the final match after a 2–1 win at Sochaux. The hero was Ivorian striker Amara Diané who scored both goals that night. Despite not enjoying the star status of other current or past PSG greats, Diané is still considered a legend by most Parisian fans.
QSI ownership and domestic dominance (2011–present).
After two years of solid progress and stability under the stewardship of manager Antoine Kombouaré and president Robin Leproux, the fortunes of Paris Saint-Germain changed dramatically when Qatar Sports Investments (QSI) purchased the club in 2011. The takeover made PSG not only the richest club in France but one of the wealthiest in the world. Club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi pledged to form a team capable of winning the UEFA Champions League and making the club France's biggest name.
Club legend Leonardo was brought back in as sporting director and oversaw a spending spree in summer 2011 that has so far been unprecedented in Ligue 1 history, including the signings of Blaise Matuidi, Salvatore Sirigu, Maxwell, Kevin Gameiro and Javier Pastore. As a result, the Parisians have dominated French football, despite finishing behind Montpellier in 2011–12, the elusive league crown was finally brought back to Paris in 2012–13 driven by star player Zlatan Ibrahimović, team captain Thiago Silva and manager Carlo Ancelotti. During the season, ahead of the winter transfer deadline it was announced that David Beckham signed a five-month deal with the club. Ibrahimović's 30-goal haul helped the capital side to its first Ligue 1 title in 19 years, and third overall. They also became a regular in the knockout stages of the Champions League, being eliminated from the UEFA Champions League on away goals by Barcelona in the quarter-finals after drawing both games. Big money signings continued with the arrivals of Edinson Cavani in 2013 for a league record of €64 million, making it the sixth largest transfer in history and David Luiz in 2014 for a £50 million transfer fee, a world-record transfer for a defender. Despite the departure of Ancelotti, PSG kept its winning ways under Laurent Blanc. The club secured a maiden domestic treble (Ligue 1, Coupe de la Ligue and Trophée des Champions) in the 2013–14 season, before claiming an unprecedented national quadruple (Ligue 1, Coupe de France, Coupe de la Ligue and Trophée des Champions) twice in a row in 2014–15 and 2015–16, winning the latter with a record-breaking 96 points, becoming the only first French men's team to achieve that feat.
Fresh from three consecutive UEFA Europa League titles with Sevilla, Unai Emery was hired by PSG for his European pedigree. But with star player Ibrahimović gone, the club endured a disappointing 2016–17 season. Paris were pipped to the Ligue 1 title by Monaco, missing out on top spot for the first time in five years. Meanwhile, in the Champions League, the club suffered several disappointing nights, including "La Remontada" ("The Comeback") against Barcelona, losing 6–1 in the second leg of the round of sixteen, despite winning the first leg in France by a score of 4–0.
In response, PSG signed Neymar for a world-record fee of €222 million and French prodigy Kylian Mbappé on an initial loan, which was made permanent in 2018 in a transfer worth €180 million plus add-ons, making him both the second-most expensive player and most expensive teenager. The capital club reclaimed the Ligue 1 title and also won the Trophée des Champions, the Coupe de la Ligue and the Coupe de France, clinching the domestic quadruple for the third time in four seasons. Despite their massive expenditure, in the Champions League, PSG lost to Real Madrid in the round of 16, leading Unai Emery to leave the club at the end of the season.
In May 2018, Thomas Tuchel signed a two-year contract with PSG. Paris Saint-Germain again fell in the Champions League round of 16 in 2018–19, suffering a shock 3–1 defeat at home to Manchester United after winning the first leg 2–0 at Old Trafford. This season, they also won the Ligue 1 for the 8th time in their history, but lost in the Coupe de France Final against Rennes. PSG were eliminated from the Coupe de la Ligue in embarrassing fashion, as they lost 2–1 at home to Guingamp in the quarterfinals. In the 2019–20 season, PSG won the Ligue 1 for the 9th time in their history, despite the season ending prematurely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and also reclaimed the Coupe de France defeating Saint-Étienne in the final and won the last-ever Coupe de la Ligue defeating Lyon in a penalty shootout. In the 2019–20 UEFA Champions League, PSG reached the semi-finals for the second time since 1995, after a last minute 2–1 win over Atalanta, before losing to Bayern Munich 1–0 in the final in Lisbon, with former PSG player Kingsley Coman scoring the only goal.
Tuchel's tenure at Paris Saint-Germain was marred by a fractured relationship with the club's hierarchy, leading him to be dismissed on 24 December, despite placing top of their Champions League group. On 2 January 2021, former PSG player Mauricio Pochettino was appointed as the new head coach. PSG's good form in the Champions League continued in 2021 with a second consecutive semi-final appearance, a first for the club. Domestically, PSG won the Coupe de France, but failed to retain the Ligue 1 title, finishing one point behind Lille, losing the league for the second time in four years.
During the 2021 summer transfer season, PSG completed one of the most historic transfer windows in football history, exercising the option to buy Danilo Pereira and signing Achraf Hakimi from Inter Milan for a reported fee of €60 million. In addition, the club registered the free transfers of Georginio Wijnaldum, Sergio Ramos, and Gianluigi Donnarumma. PSG concluded their transfer window with the signing of one of the greatest players of all time and record Ballon d'Or winner Lionel Messi, who unexpectedly left Barcelona following the expiration of his contract, and promising defender Nuno Mendes on an initial loan, which was made permanent in 2022. Later in the season, PSG went on to reclaim the Ligue 1 title for the record 10th time, but fell short in the Champions League at the hands of Real Madrid in the round of 16, a tie amplified by the uncertainty surrounding Kylian Mbappé's future. However, on 21 May 2022, Mbappé extended his contract with PSG until 2025, despite speculations of a possible transfer to Real Madrid, which prompted La Liga officials to file a complaint to UEFA regarding accumulating losses of PSG in the previous years.
Unsatisfied with the club direction and lack of European success club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi promised changes heading into next season and stated the team would not win the UEFA Champions League as currently constructed. Changes were needed at the club on a very deep level and as such during the pre season for the 2022–23 season the club embarked on an ambitious rebuild. This began with the hiring of transfer market expert Luís Campos who made his name at Monaco first and then Lille. A change in club ethos was noted, and was followed by the sacking of first team coach Pochettino, while an announcement for the hiring of Christophe Galtier was made in quick succession. A busy pre-season followed with signings of Nuno Mendes, Vitinha, Hugo Ekitike and Nordi Mukiele. Eleven players were put on the transfer list as Galtier looked to reduce the squad size.
Identity.
Colours and mascot.
Since their foundation, Paris Saint-Germain have represented both the city of Paris and the nearby royal town of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. As a result, red, blue and white are the club's traditional colours. The red and blue are Parisian colours, a nod to revolutionary figures Lafayette and Jean Sylvain Bailly, and the white is a symbol of French royalty and Saint-Germain-en-Laye.
On the club's crest, the Eiffel Tower in red and the blue background represent Paris, while the fleur de lys in white is a hint to the coat of arms of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The fleur de lys is a royal symbol as well and recalls that French King Louis XIV was born in the town. Throughout its history, PSG have brandished several crests, but all of them have featured the club's three historical colours.
Likewise, PSG's most iconic shirts have been predominantly red, blue or white, with the remaining two colours included as well. The club's official mascot, Germain the Lynx, also sports PSG's traditional colours. It was unveiled during the 2010 Tournoi de Paris in commemoration of the club's 40th anniversary, and can be seen entertaining kids in the stands of the Parc des Princes or near the pitch with the players during the warm-up.
Anthems and mottos.
"Allez Paris!," recorded by Belgian actress and singer Annie Cordy in 1971, was the club's first official anthem. A PSG fan from the start, she was part of an association of hundreds of celebrities who contributed to the foundation of the club in 1970. The club's second anthem, "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain!" by Les Parisiens, was recorded in 1977, replacing Cordy's version. The brainchild of historical PSG leader and music producer Charles Talar, he produced and released it under his homonym record label. The song's chorus became a popular chant among PSG supporters during games. A new version, also called "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain!," was recorded in 2010 as part of the club's 40th anniversary celebrations. Sung to the tune of "Go West" by Village People, the lyrics were rewritten with suggestions made by fans. This is the club's current official anthem.
"Ô Ville Lumière" ("Oh City of Light"), to the tune of "Flower of Scotland," is another veritable club anthem for PSG supporters. Other notable chants from supporters' groups in the Boulogne and Auteuil stands include "Le Parc est à nous" ("The Parc is ours"), "Ici, c'est Paris!" ("This is Paris!"), and "Paris est magique!" ("Paris is magical!"). Both stands began exchanging these chants during PSG matches in the 1990s. "Ici, c'est Paris!" and "Paris est magique!" are also the club's most iconic mottos. "Who Said I Would" by Phill Collins is also a traditional anthem for the fans. The song has accompanied the players' entry into the field since 1992.
Iconic shirts.
During their first three seasons of existence, the home shirt of Paris Saint-Germain was red with blue and white details in its sleeves and neck to bring together the three colours of the club: the red and blue of Paris, and the white of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. During the 2010–11 season, PSG wore a red shirt during home matches to commemorate their 40th anniversary.
The connection between Paris Saint-Germain and the city's fashion houses is a longstanding one. French fashion designer Daniel Hechter became PSG president in 1973 and designed the club's traditional home look that same year: a blue shirt with a red vertical stripe flanked by two thinner white stripes (blue-white-red-white-blue). First worn in the 1973–74 season, the so-called "Hechter shirt" has remained the classic home identity of PSG ever since.
The famous jersey made its debut during a home Ligue 2 game against Red Star on 10 November 1973. This was also the club's maiden match at the Parc des Princes. PSG won 3–1 as Othniel Dossevi scored the club's first goal at the stadium as well as the first with the Hechter shirt. PSG stars from the 1990s and 2000s like Raí, Ronaldinho and Pauleta are associated with this kit. While wearing it, the capital club reached five European semi-finals in a row between 1993 and 1997, claimed the 1995–96 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and achieved eight consecutive wins against "Le Classique" arch-rivals Olympique de Marseille between 2002 and 2004.
The general belief is that Hechter based his creation on the red-and-white jersey worn by Ajax, the dominant team in Europe at the time, but with the French flag in mind. Hechter himself has denied this, though, instead claiming he was inspired by the Ford Mustang. He transposed the car's hood stripes on the shirt and employed the three colours of the club. The Hechter shirt has two alternate versions: the "reversed Hechter" (red-white-blue-white-red), introduced in the 1974–75 season, and the "white Hechter" (white-blue-red-blue-white), which premiered in the 1994–95 season.
It was with the club's most iconic away outfit, though, that fans saw the first big PSG team which won their maiden French Cup titles in 1982 and 1983, experienced their first European campaign in 1983, and claimed their maiden Ligue 1 crown in 1986. The shirt was white with blue and red vertical stripes on the left. Like the Hechter jersey, it debuted in the 1973–74 season as the away kit. Promoted by PSG president Francis Borelli, the white shirt was the club's home identity from 1981 to 1990. Now known as the "Borelli shirt," it is synonym with PSG legends from the 1980s like Safet Sušić, Luis Fernández and Dominique Bathenay.
Crest evolution.
The club's first crest was basically the same as the original Paris FC (PFC) logo. Having to merge and give birth to PSG using Stade Saint-Germain's stadium, the PFC crest kept its original design but the name below it changed from "Paris FC" to "Paris Saint-Germain Football Club." This badge consisted of a blue football with a red vessel inside it. The latter is a historic symbol of Paris and is present in the city's coat of arms. The name of the club was written below in red.
PSG, however, split from PFC in 1972 and thus needed a new crest. Representing both Paris and Saint-Germain-en-Laye, the club's second crest became the basis of the one the fans know today. The round logo featured the Eiffel Tower in red against a blue background and, underneath it, two Saint-Germain symbols in white: a fleur de lys and Louis XIV's cradle. Created by Christian Lentretien, former PSG board member and publicist by profession, this crest was first used in 1972 and lasted until 1982. The Parc des Princes, the club's home stadium, appeared below it between 1982 and 1990.
The stadium was dropped from the crest in 1990. Two years later, then club owners Canal+ radically changed it in 1992. The new model had the acronym "PSG" in white against a blue-white-red-white-blue background (like the colour pattern of the Hechter shirt) with "Paris Saint-Germain" underneath in white against a black background. Under pressure from supporters, the traditional crest returned in 1995 with "Paris Saint-Germain" above the tower and "1970" below the cradle. This logo went through a slight facelift in 2002, most notably featuring a darker shade of blue.
At the request of the club's Qatari owners, the traditional crest underwent a major makeover in 2013. "Paris" is now written in big white bold letters above a large Eiffel Tower, clearly putting forward the brand "Paris" instead of "Paris Saint-Germain". Underneath it, "Saint-Germain" is written in smaller letters below the fleur de lys. The cradle and the club's founding year "1970" were left out. PSG deputy general manager Jean-Claude Blanc said: "We are called Paris Saint-Germain but, above all, we are called Paris".
Friendly tournaments.
Paris Saint-Germain used to host two very famous invitational competitions: the Tournoi de Paris and the Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy. Regarded as French football's most prestigious friendly tournament, the Tournoi de Paris is considered a precursor of both the Intercontinental Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup. PSG began hosting it in 1975 and were crowned champions a record seven times. Held at the Parc des Princes, the Tournoi de Paris was last organized in 2012. The Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy was an indoor football tournament founded by PSG in 1984 and held annually until 1991 at the AccorHotels Arena in the 12th arrondissement of Paris. Played indoors on a synthetic field and featuring seven-a-side teams, the competition featured hosts PSG and five more clubs. The Parisians lifted the trophy on two occasions, more than any other club.
Grounds.
Stadiums.
Since its inception, Paris Saint-Germain have played in five main stadiums: the Stade Jean-Bouin, the Stade Georges Lefèvre, the Stade Bauer, the Stade Yves-du-Manoir, and the Parc des Princes, their current home ground. PSG took on Ligue 2 promotion rivals Red Star on November 10, 1973, for the club's very first match at the Parc des Princes. It was the curtain-raiser for that season's opening Ligue 1 match between Paris FC and Sochaux. PSG moved into the ground upon its return to Ligue 1 in July 1974, ironically the same year that Paris FC were relegated. Up until that point it had hosted Paris FC, who showed reluctance towards PSG playing there.
From that moment on, the Parc des Princes has been the home stadium of PSG. Its most prolific season in terms of average attendance is 2019–20, during which an average of 47,517 spectators went to the stadium for each match. The attendance record for a PSG match dates back to March 13, 1983, with 49,575 spectators present in the stands of the Parc des Princes. This match pitted PSG against Belgian side Waterschei for the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup quarterfinals. The final score was a 2–0 victory for the Parisians.
During the 1970–71 season, the club played at the Stade Jean-Bouin, concurrently with the Stade Georges Lefèvre. The Jean-Bouin was privileged given that it drew significantly greater levels of fan support. The Georges Lefèvre regularly hosted PSG matches from 1972 to 1974 as well. Between 1904 and 1970, it was the home of Stade Saint-Germain, club which merged with Paris FC to form PSG in 1970. PSG played again at the Jean-Bouin in 1973–74, alternating their home games with the Georges Lefèvre and the Parc des Princes.
PSG played at the Stade de Paris, today known as Stade Bauer, for the first time during the 1971–72 season. It was used again by the club once in 1976–77 and 1977–78, and twice in 1978–79 due to construction work on the lawn of the Parc des Princes. Similarly, the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir, as its officially called, welcomed PSG for three matches in 1971–72, once more in 1974–75, and one last time in 1975–76 because the Parc des Princes was under renovation.
Training facilities.
Campus PSG has been the club's training ground since July 2023. Located in Poissy, it replaced the Camp des Loges, PSG's historical training facility. Owned and financed by the club, the venue brings together PSG's male and female football, handball and judo teams, as well as the football and handball academies. Each division have its own dedicated facilities. Campus PSG will have a stadium, which will complement the club's home ground of the Parc des Princes. It is due to be built during the second phase of the project, after 2024. PSG's male team moved into Campus PSG on July 10, 2023. They completed their first group training session there on July 18, 2023, and played their first game on July 21, 2023. It was a friendly match against Le Havre which ended in a 2–0 victory for PSG.
The Camp des Loges is a training ground located in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. It hosted PSG's male team from July 1970 to June 2023. The venue also turned into the training facilities of the club's academy when it opened on 4 November 1975. The current version of the Camp des Loges opened in November 2008, and is the second to have been built on the site, with the first opening its doors in June 1904. It was renamed Ooredoo Training Centre, as part of a sponsorship deal with Ooredoo, in September 2013. The complex hosted the training sessions of the club's female team between June 2023 and January 2024. The men's team left the Camp des Loges for Campus PSG in July 2023. The club's academy and female team moved to the new site in January 2024. Rugby union club Stade Français are expected to become the new tenants of the Camp des Loges in the summer of 2024.
Records and statistics.
Paris Saint-Germain holds many records, most notably being the most successful French club in history in terms of official titles won, with 49. They are the record holders of all national competitions, having clinched eleven Ligue 1 championships, fourteen Coupe de France, nine Coupe de la Ligue, and twelve Trophée des Champions. Their trophy cabinet also includes one Ligue 2 title. In international football, PSG have claimed one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and one UEFA Intertoto Cup.
Their victory in the 1995–96 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup makes PSG the sole French side to have won this trophy, one of only two French clubs to have won a major European competition, and the youngest European team to do so. They are also the only side to have won the Ligue 1 title after being at the top of the table from the first until the last round (2022–23), the Coupe de France without conceding a single goal (1992–93 and 2016–17), five Coupe de la Ligue in a row (2014–2018), four back-to-back Coupe de France (2015–2018), and eight consecutive Trophée des Champions (2013–2020).
PSG have won all four national titles in a single season on four occasions. This feat is known as the domestic quadruple. The Red and Blues have completed the domestic double, the league and league cup double, the domestic cup double, the domestic treble and the league three-peat several times as well. Therefore, PSG are the club with the most domestic doubles and league and league cup doubles, one of two sides to have achieved the league three-peat twice, and the only team to have won the domestic cup double, the domestic treble and the domestic quadruple.
Since their inception, PSG have completed 53 seasons, of which 50 have been played in the highest division in French football, known as Ligue 1. In 2022–23, they celebrated their 49th consecutive campaign in Ligue 1, which makes them the competitions's longest-serving club. PSG have played continuously in Ligue 1 from the 1974–75 season onwards. Since then, the Parisians have won eleven league titles, finishing first more frequently than in any other position. Having come second in nine league campaigns, PSG have therefore made up the top two spots on 20 occasions. They have also reached the top five 28 times, which represents more than half of the club's seasons in Ligue 1. PSG's lowest-ever finish is 16th, both in 1971–72 (their first in Ligue 1) and 2007–08, when they escaped relegation on the final day of the season, with a 2–1 win at Sochaux.
Supporters.
Paris Saint-Germain is the most popular football club in France and one of the most widely supported teams in the world. Famous PSG fans include Nicolas Sarkozy, Tony Parker, Fabio Quartararo, Patrick Dempsey, Victoria Azarenka, Teddy Riner, and DJ Snake.
Lacking a big passionate fanbase, the club began offering cheaper season tickets to young supporters in 1976. These fans were placed in the Kop K, located in the K section of the Borelli stand at the Parc des Princes. Following an increase in ticket prices, Kop K supporters moved to the Boulogne stand in 1978, and the Kop of Boulogne (KoB) was born. There, the club's first Italian-style ultra group, Boulogne Boys, was founded in 1985. Other KoB groups, however, took British hooligans as dubious role models and violence rapidly escalated. PSG supporters' groups have been linked to football hooliganism ever since.
PSG owners Canal+ responded in 1991 by encouraging and financing non-violent fans of the KoB stand to take place in the Auteuil stand at the other end of the Parc des Princes. The Virage Auteuil was born, alongside Supras Auteuil, its most notorious ultras. At first the measure worked but, slowly, a violent rivalry arose between the two stands. Things came to a head in 2010 before a match against Olympique de Marseille in Paris. Boulogne fan Yann Lorence was killed following a fight between groups from both stands outside the Parc des Princes, forcing PSG president Robin Leproux to take action.
The club exiled the supporters' groups from the Parc des Princes and banned them from all PSG matches in what was known as Plan Leproux. It made PSG pay the price in terms of atmosphere, with one of Europe's most feared venues now subdued. For their part, former Virage Auteuil supporters formed the Collectif Ultras Paris (CUP) in February 2016, with the aim of reclaiming their place at the stadium. In October 2016, after a six-year absence, the club agreed to their return. Grouped in the Auteuil end of the stadium, the CUP currently is the only ultra association officially recognized by PSG. The ultra movement has also started to come back to life in the Boulogne stand. New groups Block Parisii and Résistance Parisienne are trying to convince the club of relaunching the Kop of Boulogne.
Rivalries.
Le Classique.
Paris Saint-Germain shares an intense rivalry with Olympique de Marseille; matches between the two teams are referred to as Le Classique. The clubs are the two most successful clubs in French football, and the only French teams to have won major European trophies. Therefore, the fixture is the biggest rivalry in France.
PSG and OM were the dominant teams prior to the emergence of Olympique Lyonnais in the 2000s, and are the most followed French teams internationally. Both clubs are at or near the top of the French attendance lists each season. Their meetings during the 1970s gave little indication the two would become major adversaries. The newly formed Parisians were trying to assemble a competitive team, while the Olympians were Ligue 1 contenders.
The rivalry began in earnest in 1986 when PSG won their first championship and OM was bought by Bernard Tapie. By the end of the decade, PSG was fighting for the 1988–89 title against Tapie's Marseille. The accusations made by PSG president Francis Borelli against Tapie and OM for fixing matches during that season were a contributor to their growing rivalry.
In the 1990s, tensions between the two sides escalated. French TV channel Canal+ bought PSG in 1991 with the aim of breaking Marseille's hegemony but then agreed with Tapie to emphasize the animosity between them as a way to promote the league. With equivalent financial backing, PSG and OM became the main contenders in the title race. Both sides were less successful in the late 1990s and the 2000s but the rivalry remained strong. Since the 2010s, the matchup has been dominated by PSG, and the significant investment of their Qatari owners has created a wide gap between the clubs.
Ownership and finances.
Paris Saint-Germain were initially fan-owned and had 20,000 members. The club was run by board members Guy Crescent, Pierre-Étienne Guyot and Henri Patrelle. A group of wealthy French businessmen, led by Daniel Hechter and Francis Borelli, would then buy the club in 1973. PSG changed hands in 1991, when Canal+ took over, and then again in 2006 with the arrival of Colony Capital. Qatar Sports Investments (QSI) have been the majority owners of PSG since 2011, currently holding 87.5% of the shares. Arctos Partners owns the remaining 12.5%.
Backed by the Qatari government, QSI acquired a majority stake in 2011 and then became the Parisian outfit's sole owner in 2012. PSG are therefore a state-owned club, which makes them one of the wealthiest teams in the world. In 2023, Arctos Partners acquired a minority stake in the Qatar-funded French team. QSI chairman Nasser Al-Khelaifi has been PSG president since the takeover. However, Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, the Emir of Qatar, has the final word on every major decision of the club. He is both the chairman of the QIA and the founder of QSI.
Upon its arrival, QSI pledged to form a team capable of winning the UEFA Champions League. PSG have spent over €1.9bn on player transfers since the summer of 2011. These massive expenditures have translated in PSG's domination of French football but have not yet brought home the coveted UCL trophy as well as causing problems with UEFA's Financial Fair Play regulations.
PSG currently have the third-highest revenue in the footballing world with annual earnings of €802m according to Deloitte, and are the world's seventh-most valuable football club, worth $4.21bn according to "Forbes" magazine. This financial growth has been supported by PSG's Qatari owners; the team's on-pitch success; high-profile signings, including Zlatan Ibrahimović, Neymar, Kylian Mbappé and Lionel Messi; and lucrative sponsorship deals with the Qatar Tourism Authority, Nike, Air Jordan, Accor and Qatar Airways.
 "As of 2023 Trophée des Champions".
 "As of 1 February 2024".
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Other players under contract.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
 "As of 9 December 2023".
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="3658991" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658991" title="Le Havre AC">
Le Havre AC

French association football club
Football club
Le Havre Athletic Club, commonly known simply as Le Havre (), is a French professional association football club based in Le Havre, Normandy. The football club was founded in 1894 as a section of the sports club of the same name, founded in 1884. Le Havre plays in Ligue 1, the first tier of French football, after securing promotion from Ligue 2 as winners of the 2022–23 season, and plays its home matches at the Stade Océane.
Le Havre made its football debut in France's first-ever championship in 1899 and, on its debut, became the first French club outside Paris to win the league. The club won the league the following season in 1900. Le Havre has yet to win the current first division of French football, Ligue 1, yet they managed to win the second division, Ligue 2, for a record of six times. The club's highest honour to date was winning the Coupe de France in 1959.
The main rivalries of Le Havre are the "Derby Normand" with SM Caen and an always heated clash with Lens, located in the region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais.
History.
Contrary to what the club has long claimed, Le Havre AC was not founded in 1872. It was in 1884 that a group of British residents formed Le Havre Athlétique, which played a hybrid form of football, a cross between rugby and association football, called "combination". Association football began being played in Le Havre in 1894.
In 1899, Le Havre became the first club from outside Paris to become French football champions. At the time the championship was organised by the USFSA. After being awarded a win over Iris Club Lillois in the semi-final by walkover, they were awarded the title after also receiving a walkover in the final against Club Français. They would also win the following year, with the final being a "re-match" of the forfeited 1899 final.
The club is famous for its notable youth investment program which develops and nurtures young talent, with the vision of using them in the first team if they show enough promise. A vast amount of good young talent has gone on to make an impact at international level including Benjamin Mendy, Ibrahim Ba, Jean-Alain Boumsong, Lassana Diarra, Riyad Mahrez, Steve Mandanda, Vikash Dhorasoo, Paul Pogba and Dimitri Payet.
The club was on the receiving end of some high-profile illegal transfers, by which Charles N'Zogbia, Matthias Lepiller and Paul Pogba were signed by other clubs, allegedly without the proper compensation being paid. The first two were arbitrated by FIFA, who ordered Newcastle United and Fiorentina to pay training compensation.
In the 2022–23 Ligue 2, Le Havre finished top of the league table to win their sixth title in the division and secure promotion to the Ligue 1 for the first time since 2008.
Club culture.
Le Havre is known as 'les ciel et marine' in France, which translates as 'the sky and navy blues'. These colours were chosen by the club's English founders as they were those of their alma maters, the universities of Oxford and Cambridge: the anthem of the club is played to the melody of "God Save the Queen" to mark the English origins of the club:
""A jamais le premier"&lt;br&gt;
"de tous les clubs français"&lt;br&gt;
"ô H.A.C."&lt;br&gt;
"Fiers de tes origines"&lt;br&gt;
"Fils d'Oxford et Cambridge"&lt;br&gt;
"deux couleurs font notre prestige"&lt;br&gt;
"Ciel et marine!""
English translation:
"The first ever&lt;br&gt;
of all French clubs&lt;br&gt;
The H.A.C&lt;br&gt;
Proud of your roots&lt;br&gt;
Son of Oxford and Cambridge&lt;br&gt;
two colours make our prestige&lt;br&gt;
(the colours of the) sky and the sea!"
 "As of 2 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="4040207" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4040207" title="Dijon FCO">
Dijon FCO

French professional football club
Football club
Dijon Football Côte d'Or (; lit. 'Dijon Football Gold Coast'), commonly referred to as Dijon FCO or simply as Dijon, is a French football club based in Dijon. The club was founded in 1998 as a result of a merger between two local clubs in the city, and competed in Ligue 2 after suffering relegation from Ligue 1 in the 2011–12 season. The club earned promotion back to Ligue 1 at the end of the 2015–16 season, before again being relegated in 2020–21. The club's president is Olivier Delcourt. Dijon plays its home matches at the Stade Gaston Gérard.
History.
The history of football in Dijon began in 1903 with the founding of Cercle Laïque Dijonnais (Dijon Secular Club). The club's football section was set up in 1913. During World War II Cercle Laïque Dijonnais was renamed Cercle Sportif Dijon (Dijon Sports Club) and merged with FC Dijon. The new club, called Cercle Sportif Laïque Dijonnais (Dijon Secular Sports Club), joined Burgundy's regional Division Honneur at its creation in 1945. In spring 1960, the club won the Burgundy championship for the first time.
After a spell in the top level amateur league from 1962, the club was coached by Pierre Danzelle and was able to field a stronger team, as shown by its winning the CFA Centre division in 1965. Refusing repeated proposals by the footballing authorities for the club to turn professional, Dijon's directors brought about the breakup of the team. The club was relegated to the Division d'Honneur in 1967. The club won promotion to Division 3 in 1974 with the help of Philippe Piat.
In the late 1970s, meanwhile, several small clubs merged to form Dijon FC. This new club became the rivals of Cercle Sportif Laïque Dijonnais in the Burgundian capital. During the 1980s Cercle was owned by Jean Claude Dubouil. For the first time in its history, the club played in Division 2 between 1987 and 1991. Despite some good results, however, the club declined both financially and in terms of performance. Meanwhile, the city's second club, Dijon FC, coached by Daniel Joseph, was promoted to the CFA, the same division as Cercle.
Formation (1998–2005).
In 1998, the two leading clubs of the city, the Cercle Sportif Laïque Dijonnais and Dijon FC decided to merge to give Dijon a stronger club, which was named Dijon Football Côte-d'Or (DFCO). During its first season in CFA, DFCO's manager was Noël Tosi. The club missed out on promotion in the last match of the season. Noël Tosi was dismissed, and replaced by his deputy, Daniel Joseph. The following season, promotion was won in a match against Calais RUFC, again on the last day of the season. The same year DFCO beat Alès to win the French Amateur title, the club's first trophy.
The following two seasons in National were difficult for the club. During the 2000–01 season, the club narrowly escaped relegation. Following the departure of Daniel Joseph, his deputy Mario Relmy took over and again the team managed to avoid relegation. In 2002, Rudi Garcia arrived at Dijon, which turned professional in 2004. In his first season as coach, Garcia took Dijon briefly to the top of the National league before they finally finished 4th, three points away from promotion. In 2004 Dijon achieved a memorable run in the Coupe de France, beating Saint-Étienne (L2), Lens (L1), Reims (L2) and Amiens (L2) before losing to Châteauroux (L2) in the semi-final. In the same year DFCO was promoted to Ligue 2.
Ligue 2 (2005–2011).
Promotion to Ligue 2 allowed the club to be separated into two entities: professional and amateur. Despite limited resources and poor infrastructure, DFCO achieved an impressive 4th place in its first season in Ligue 2. The club also achieved the exploit of beating Bordeaux in the 16th round of the Coupe de la Ligue.
At the end of the 2005–06 season, the club finished fifth. The club's aim was promotion to Ligue 1. During the 2006–07 season, Dijon narrowly missed several opportunities to reach the podium, but finally finished 8th. June 2007 marked the end of an era as Rudi Garcia left to manage Le Mans. The new coach, Serge Romano, led the club to a top-three position during the season for the first time in the club's history, but after the club fell down the table Serge Romano was sacked in December 2007. He was replaced by Faruk Hadžibegić in January 2008 after Frederic Bompard briefly took charge as caretaker. The new coach then saved the club from relegation thanks to a draw on the last day of the season away to AC Ajaccio. The same year, the club reached the quarter finals of the Coupe de France for the first time, but lost to Amiens on 15 April 2008.
The 2008–09 season was marked by the arrival of the French international Eric Carrière, as well as Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on loan from A.C. Milan. Despite their contribution, DFCO remained stuck in the lower half of the table, although they put themselves beyond relegation in April. In the Coupe de France Dijon lost against the Ligue 1 team Grenoble on penalties after a 1–1 draw.
Following a dispute during the summer break in 2009 between President Bernard Gnecchi and the coach at the time, Faruk Hadžibegić, Gnecchi chose to appoint Patrice Carteron as the new coach. After a first season ended in mid-table, DFCO was promoted to Ligue 1 at the end of the 2010–11 season for the first time in its history, thanks to finishing third in Ligue 2.
Ligue 1 (2011–2012).
Dijon played in Ligue 1 for the first time in its history during the 2011–12 season. On 7 August 2011, the Burgundy club played its first top-flight match against Rennes at home, scoring its first goal and recording its first defeat (1–5). The following Saturday, DFCO lost to Toulouse 2–0. The club's first victory in Ligue 1 came at home on 20 August against Lorient (2–0). The club won a second match in Annecy against Evian Thonon-Gaillard (0–1), but then lost against Lyon at home in the next match (1–2). Dijon was 16th in the table at the winter break, and recorded a series of good results afterward, drawing with the future champions Montpellier (1–1), and beating Marseille (2–1) on 17 March 2012, but internal conflicts and poor performances by leading players such as Benjamin Corgnet and ex-Chelsea player Gaël Kakuta weighed heavily at the end of the season. After a win against SM Caen (2–0) on 25 March 2012, Dijon failed to win another match, losing six and drawing three. On 20 May 2012, on the last day of the season, Dijon lost heavily to Rennes (5–0) and were officially relegated to Ligue 2, accompanied by their local rivals, Auxerre. Conceding 63 goals in 38 games, Dijon had the worst defence in Ligue 1 during their first season in the top flight. Following the relegation, club president Bernard Gnecchi resigned and manager Patrice Carteron left the club.
Return to Ligue 2 (2012–2016).
The new president was Olivier Delcourt, while Olivier Dall'Oglio took over as coach. During the first season back in Ligue 2, the club finished 7th. On 22 April 2016, Dijon won promotion back to Ligue 1 finishing second on the table.
Ligue 1 (2016–2021).
In Dijon's first season back in Ligue 1, they managed to survive relegation and finish 16th. In the 2017–18 Ligue 1 season, Dijon finished 11th, improving their club record of 16th, which they set last season. The 2017–18 campaign, which was only the club's third-ever top-flight season, saw them end on 48 points, 11 more than they managed last year.
In the 2018–19 Ligue 1 season, Dijon finished in 18th place on the table and were required to play a two legged play off against Ligue 2 side RC Lens. After a 1–1 draw in the first leg, Dijon would win the second leg and the tie 3–1 after two goalkeeping blunders by Lens keeper Jérémy Vachoux cost his side a chance of promotion to Ligue 1 and ensured Dijon's survival.
With four games left to play, Dijon were relegated back to Ligue 2 in the 2020–21 Ligue 1 season, following a 5–1 defeat to Stade Rennais on 25 April 2021.
 "As of 4 December 2023"
Current squad.
First team.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Crest history.
The owl, associated with an architectural detail at the Church of Notre-Dame of Dijon, is a symbol of the city. The club's first crest featured Dijon's Guillaume Gate (Place Darcy) with an owl in the foreground. In the 2006 version, the owl was shown in full flight, while the Guillaume Gate gave way to a plain red background, in line with the team's new home kit. The owl is shown opening its wings to represent V for victory. Between the wings appears "1998", the date of the club's foundation in its modern form, and at the top 'DFCO' and 'Dijon Football Côte d'Or'. The current crest is an updated version of 2006's, with the words 'Dijon Football Côte d'Or' having disappeared, leaving only 'DFCO' and '1998' written in white on the red background.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="4319218" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4319218" title="Red Star F.C.">
Red Star F.C.

French football club
Football club
Red Star Football Club, also known simply as Red Star (), is a French association football club founded in Paris in 1897, and is the fourth oldest French football club, after Standard AC of Paris, Le Havre AC and Girondins de Bordeaux. Since the 2019–20 season the club has played in the Championnat National, the French third tier, after been relegated from Ligue 2 at the end of the 2018–19 season. It plays matches at Stade Bauer. The team is managed by Habib Beye.
Despite the club's long spell under a semi-pro status, Red Star has a rich history. The club was founded in 1897 under the name "Red Star Club Français" by French football legend Jules Rimet. Rimet later went on to serve as president of both the French Football Federation and FIFA. The original FIFA World Cup Trophy was named in his honour. Red Star was one of the founding member clubs of Ligue 1 and has spent 19 seasons in the first division; the club's last top tier stint being in 1974–75. In cup competitions, the club has won five Coupe de France titles, which is tied for fifth-best among all French clubs.
While the club have enjoyed only modest success on the field, the club is widely recognised for its distinctive social culture. Red Star supporters are strongly identified with their support of left-wing politics, social activism and a party atmosphere they create at the club's matches.
The club was purchased by US-based private investment firm 777 Partners in May 2022, a move which saw demonstrations from fans leading to the postponement of a Championnat National match in April 2022.
History.
Red Star Football Club was founded on 21 February 1897 in a Parisian café by Jules Rimet and Ernest Weber under the name "Red Star Club Français". The derivation of the name is uncertain; it is possibly taken from the red star of Buffalo Bill or possibly in reference to Miss Jenny, a British governess based in Paris who was adopted as the godmother of the club, who recommended the club be named after the historic shipping line, the Red Star Line. Upon its creation, Rimet installed Jean de Piessac as club president and one of his younger brothers as club secretary. The club was officially inaugurated on 12 March 1897 after Rimet signed the club's statutes and sent them to the USFSA, which, during this time, served as the head of French football. Members of the club were required to pay ₣100 a month to help the club meet its daily quota. Red Star officially joined the USFSA in 1898 and was inserted into the third-tier of the association's football league system. In the club's infancy, the team played in navy blue and white at the Champ de Mars. However, soon after, Red Star moved to Meudon playing on a terrace overlooking the Seine Valley. Midway through the year, de Piessac left his post as club president. Rimet quickly succeeded him and, by 1904, Red Star were playing in the first division of the USFSA league.
In 1907, Red Star changed its name to "Red Star Amical Club" after merging with Amical Football Club. Due to the merger, the club departed Meudon and moved to Grenelle. After three years in Grenelle, the club moved to Saint-Ouen in Seine-Saint-Denis to play in the newly built Stade de Paris. On 25 October 1909, the stadium was inaugurated following a match between Red Star and English club Old Westminsters. The stadium was later renamed to its present name today. With the USFSA becoming disorganised in the early 1900s, Red Star joined the newly created Ligue de Football Association (LFA) in 1910. In 1912, the club earned its first honour after winning the association's "Ligue Nationale". In the same year, the club also finished runner-up to Étoile des Deux Lacs in the Trophée de France.
In 1919, the French Football Federation was created and months later, the Coupe de France. From 1920–34, Red Star embarked on a remarkable uprising in which the club won four Coupe de France titles, achieved professional status, and were founding members of the French Division 1. The club's first Coupe de France victory came in 1921, when the club, led by French internationals Pierre Chayriguès, Paul Nicolas, Juste Brouzes, Lucien Gamblin and Maurice Meyer, defeated Olympique de Paris 2–1, courtesy of goals from Marcel Naudin and Robert Clavel. In the ensuing two seasons, Red Star won back-to-back Coupe de France titles. In 1922, the club defeated Stade Rennais UC 2–0 and, in 1923, Red Star beat Cette 4–2 to complete the hat trick. In 1926, Red Star completed a second merger, this time with its local rivals Olympique de Paris whom it had defeated just five years ago in a Coupe de France final. Due to the merger, Red Star changed its name to "Red Star Olympique" and dropped its navy blue and white combination for a simple white blouse. In 1928, Red Star won its fourth Coupe de France title of the decade defeating CA Paris 3–1 at the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir in Colombes.
In July 1930, the National Council of the French Football Federation voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. Red Star were among the first clubs to adopt the new statute and, subsequently, became professional and were founding members of the new league. In the league's inaugural season, Red Star were relegated after finishing in the bottom three of its group. As a result, the club played the following season in the inaugural season of the Division 2. Red Star won the league and returned to the first division for the 1934–35 season. Following the club's return to Division 1, Red Star switched its colours from white to the green and white that exists today. In 1967, they merged with Toulouse FC (not the current club) out of the latter club's financial reasons and bought Toulouse's place in the top division. The merged club last played in first division in the 1974–75 season.
After a long spell in the lower leagues, following a successful 2014–15 campaign, the team won promotion to Ligue 2, the second tier of French football.
In their first season back in Ligue 2, Red Star finished 5th on the table missing promotion to Ligue 1 by a single point. In the 2016–17 Ligue 2 season, Red Star finished 19th and were relegated back to the third division of French football.
Due to safety regulation issues with Stade Bauer, Red Star has been forced to play at different stadiums the past few seasons when in Ligue 2. They have employed Stade Jean-Bouin in the past and then used Stade Pierre Brisson located in Beauvais. Since returning to the third tier in 2019, the club has returned to playing home matches at Stade Bauer.
In 2018, Red Star were promoted back to Ligue 2 as champions of the Championnat National. They were relegated again the following season, finishing bottom of Ligue 2. Their relegation was confirmed on 27 April 2019 after losing 2–1 to champions FC Metz.
Supporters.
The club has relatively modest but loyal support, mostly centered around Saint-Ouen and the northern suburbs of Paris. Overtly antifascist, most of the fans are left-wing, and the club identifies itself as a banlieue working-class club. Average attendances in recent years have been consistently above 3000 spectators per match with many home games sold out.
The club has several ultras groups; "Red Star Fans", ""Gang Green", "Perry Boys" and the smaller "Splif Brothers".
The fans have a long-standing friendship with "Red Kaos"" of Grenoble.
Red Star have rivalries with fellow Parisian derby rivals; with US Créteil and a fierce rivalry with Paris FC.
Youth system.
Red Star unearthed several talented players during its early existence, most notably Paul Nicolas, who spent nine years at the club, Nicolas later became a catalyst towards the development of professional football in France and was partly responsible for the creation of the Ligue de Football Professionnel. Football manager Roger Lemerre started his managerial career with the club before leading France to titles at UEFA Euro 2000 and the 2001 FIFA Confederations Cup.
Red Star's youth academy was once very productive. The likes of Alex Song, Moussa Sissoko and Abou Diaby, all renowned players in English football, came through the club's youth system. As a matter of fact, no less than five players at the 2014 World Cup had played in the club's youth teams. Nevertheless, during the years spent in lower amateur divisions, the loss of professional status led to the dismantling of the youth academy setup, and although a project to rebuild it has been in the air for a few years, it has yet to be done despite the club's return to professional football.
 "As of 15 August, 2023"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Red Star in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1897. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club or have played for his country's team.
"For a complete list of Red Star players, see ".
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="4353097" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4353097" title="FC Lorient">
FC Lorient

French professional football club
Football club
Football Club Lorient Bretagne Sud (; commonly referred to FC Lorient or simply Lorient; ) is a French professional association football club based in Lorient, Brittany. The club was founded in 1926 and currently competes in Ligue 1, the top flight of French football, following promotion from Ligue 2 in the 2019–20 season. Lorient plays its home matches at the Stade Yves Allainmat, named after the former mayor of Lorient. The stadium is surnamed Stade du Moustoir because of its location within the city. The team is managed by Régis Le Bris.
Lorient had a relatively bleak history nationally before 1998 when the club made its first appearance in Ligue 1 in the 1998–99 season. Before that, Lorient spent most of its life as an amateur club. Lorient's achieved its biggest honour in 2002 when the club won the Coupe de France defeating Bastia 1–0 in the final. Lorient has never won Ligue 1, but has won the Championnat National earning this honour in 1995. Regionally, the club has won five Brittany Division d'Honneur titles and six Coupe de Bretagne.
Lorient has most notably served as a springboard club for several present-day internationals such as Laurent Koscielny, André-Pierre Gignac, Michaël Ciani, Kevin Gameiro, Karim Ziani, Bakari Koné, Matteo Guendouzi, and Seydou Keita. French international Yoann Gourcuff, the son of Christian Gourcuff, began his career at the club before moving to Derby Breton rivals Rennes.
History.
Football Club Lorient was founded on 2 April 1926. Lorient was formed off of "La Marée Sportive", a club founded a year earlier by Madame Cuissard, a store patron who originated from Saint-Étienne, and her son Joseph. In 1929, The club began play as an amateur club under the Czechoslovakian manager Jozef Loquay and won the Champions de l'Ouest, which placed the club into the Division d'Honneur of the Brittany region, which placed the club into the Division d'Honneur of the Brittany region. In 1932, Lorient won the league and, four years later, repeated this performance. The onset of World War II limited the club's meteoric rise in the region and the departure of several players who either joined the war effort or left to play abroad effectively disseminated the club.
Following the war, Antoine Cuissard, the grandson of Madame Cuissard, joined the club as a player with intentions of rebuilding it in honour of his grandmother. Lorient began play in the Division d'Honneur. Cuissard began one of the first Lorient players to maintain a place in the France national team while playing with the club. In 1954, he played on the team that qualified for the 1954 FIFA World Cup. Lorient quickly recovered and, by 1948, was playing in the Championnat de France amateur (CFA). The club spent two years in the league before falling back to the Division d'Honneur. In 1957, Lorient was promoted back to the CFA, but struggled due to being limited financially. Subsequently, the club sought sponsors with the hopes of becoming professional. In 1967, under the chairmanship of both Jean Tomine and René Fougère, Lorient placed a bid to turn professional and was elected to Division 2 by the French League. Incoming president Henri Ducassou agreed to do his best to make professionalism prosper in Lorient.
In the second division, Lorient struggled in the early seventies to consistently stay up in the league table. In the 1974–75 and 1975–76 seasons, the club came close to promotion to Division 1, finishing 3rd in its group on each occasion, one place short of the promotion play-offs. However, the following season, Lorient was relegated to Division 3. The potential of that team had proved above its classification when the club qualified for its first French FA Cup quarter-finals in history. The club subsequently struggled financially and domestically. It went bankrupt in 1978. During this period, under the name "Club des Supporters du FC Lorient" (the supporters legally took over to keep the FC Lorient name alive), Lorient played in the Division Supérieure Régionale (sixth tier of the French football pyramid). In the early 1980s, Georges Guenoum took over the club as president and hired former Lorient player Christian Gourcuff as manager. Surprisingly, under Gourcuff, Lorient quickly climbed back up the French football ladder. In 1983, the club won the Brittany Division d'Honneur title and, the following season, won Division 4. In 1985, they won Division 3 and so were back in Division 2 eight years after their demise at that level! Gourcuff left the club after its first Division 2 campaign, with relegation only being effective through an unfavourable goal difference. Lorient spent the next five years in Division 3 playing under two managers. It went financially bust again in 1990 but was nevertheless allowed to stay in Division 3. In 1991, Gourcuff returned to the club and after almost a decade playing in Division 3, Lorient earned promotion back to Division 2 after winning the second edition of the Championnat National.
Lorient spent two seasons in the second division and, in the 1997–98 season, surprised many by running away with the league alongside champions Nancy. The 1998–99 season marked Lorient's first appearance in Division 1 in the club's history. The appearance was brief with Lorient struggling to meet the financial demands and stronger competition of the league. The club finished in 16th place and were relegated. Amazingly, Lorient finished equal on points with Le Havre with both clubs having the same number of wins, losses, and draws. However, due to Le Havre having a better goal difference, Lorient was relegated. After only two seasons in Division 2, Lorient were back in the first division for the 2001–02 season. Before the promotion, in April 2001, a takeover of the club led by Alain Le Roch led to internal problems, which resulted in the departure of Gourcuff and one of the club's best players, Ulrich Le Pen, soon after. The club hired Argentine manager Ángel Marcos to replace Gourcuff. However, Marcos lasted only a few months.
Despite the initial issues, Lorient strengthened its squad in preparation for its return to the first division by recruiting players such as Pascal Delhommeau, Moussa Saïb, Johan Cavalli, and Pape Malick Diop. Led by Yvon Pouliquen, the new signings joined the likes of Jean-Claude Darcheville, Arnaud Le Lan, and Seydou Keita and surprised many by reaching the final of the Coupe de la Ligue. Lorient was defeated by Bordeaux in the final. Lorient continued its impressive cup form by winning the Coupe de France just two months later. In the match, Lorient faced Bastia and defeated the Corsicans 1–0 courtesy of a goal from Darcheville. The title was the club's first major honour. The celebration would however end on a sourer note as Lorient was relegated from league play in the same season. The club participated in the UEFA Cup the following season, falling to Turkish side Denizlispor in the first round on away goals.
Lorient returned to the first division, now called Ligue 1, in 2006 with a completely revamped team. Instead of spending money on players, the club focused its efforts on improving its academy and promoted several players to the first-team such as André-Pierre Gignac, Virgile Reset, Jérémy Morel, and Diego Yesso during the club's stint in Ligue 2. Lorient was also influenced by the arrival of the Malian international Bakari Koné. The club, in its return to Ligue 1, finished mid-table in three straight seasons. In the 2009–10 season, Lorient performed well domestically. In October 2009, the club reached 5th place in the table; its highest position that late in the season ever. Lorient eventually finished the campaign in 7th place; its best finish in Ligue 1.
In the 2016-2017 Ligue 1 season, Lorient played against Ligue 2 side ES Troyes in the promotion/relegation play off match. Lorient lost the tie 2–1 and were relegated to Ligue 2 after an 11 year stay in the top flight.
On 30 April 2020, Lorient were promoted to Ligue 1 after the LFP decided to end the seasons of both Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 early due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Lorient were top of the Ligue 2 table at the time of the decision.
 "As of 5 February 2024."
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Former players.
"For a complete list of FC Lorient players with a Wikipedia article, see" 
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="4353185" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4353185" title="Stade Brestois 29">
Stade Brestois 29

French professional football club
Football club
Stade Brestois 29, commonly known as Stade Brestois () or simply Brest, is a French professional football club based in Brest. It was founded in 1950 following the merger of five local patronages, including Armoricaine de Brest, founded in 1903.
In its early years, the club made a rapid rise in the hierarchy of regional football, to the point of being promoted to the French Amateur Championship, the third level of French football, in 1958. The club joined the Second Division in 1970, then finally reached the First Division in 1979. It experienced its sporting peak between 1981 and 1991 under the presidency of François Yvinec, playing nine seasons in the elite in ten years. In 1991, the club was demoted before filing for bankruptcy a few months later. The club only returned to the second division in 2004 and Ligue 1 in 2010. At the end of the 2012–2013 season, it had respectively thirteen and seventeen seasons in the French First and Second divisions.
The Brest club has been chaired since 10 May 2016 by entrepreneur Denis Le Saint.
Following the 2018–19 season, the club has played in Ligue 1, the top division of French football.
History.
Sources do not agree as to the date of the club's creation. According to the version presented by the current club, it was born in 1950 from the merger of five local patronages. However, the Stade Brestois when it was created took over the structures and the place of Armoricaine de Brest, founded in 1903, of which it would therefore be the direct heir.
Armoricaine de Brest (1903–1950).
The sports section of Saint Louis patronage was created in 1903 by taking the name of Armoricaine de Brest and adopting a motto: "Pen Huel" ("Heads up" in Breton). Before the First World War, 500 young people and 400 children attended the various patronage activities: military preparation, shooting, football, athletics, men's gymnastics, theatre, choir, brass band, study circles. The war thinned the ranks of the Armoricans but activities quickly resumed.
In 1922, Father Cozanet had a stadium built at Petit Paris, on the site of the current Stade Francis-Le Blé, a grandstand still bearing the Armorican motto (the Pen Huel stand) as its name. The stadium was inaugurated on 9 February 1923 during a meeting between the Armoricaine and the Stade Français. From the ranks of the Armorican, between the wars, French internationals Alexis Thépot, Robert Coat and Jean Guéguen emerged.
The patronage of the Armorican contested the 16th finals of the Coupe de France in 1921 and 1927, the 32nd finals in 1923, 1926, 1928, 1930, 1931 and 1935. In 1926, the Armoricaine took away the title of champion of France patronage by winning in the final against Saint-Jean-de-Luz (3-0). The goalkeeper Alexis Thépot, who obtained a selection while he was part of the Armoricaine squad in 1927 against England, is one of the club's brightest players during this period.
The rise of the Stade Brestois (1950–1982).
In 1950, the merger initiated by Canon Balbous between five Catholic patronages (the Armoricaine de Saint-Louis, the Avenir de Saint-Martin, the Flamme du Pilier Rouge, the Milice de Saint-Michel and the Jeune de Saint-Marc) gave birth to Stade Brest. One of the objectives of this merger of Catholic teams is to supplant the great Brest club of the time, AS Brest, which is secular.
At its birth, the Stade Brestois had as President (then as Honorary President until his death in 1998) Jean Offret.
Taking over the place of Armoricaine in the first division of Brittany, the Stadium was promoted in Promotion d'honneur in 1951, in regional honour division (just created) in 1952 before joining the Honour Division (1953). Stade Brestois finally reached the French Amateur Championship (CFA) in 1958, taking advantage of the withdrawal of the Voltigeurs de Châteaubriant. The club is finally evolving at the same level as its rival AS Brest. In 1963, the club went back down to the honor division, but returned to the CFA in 1966. Continuing its rise in the hierarchy of French football, the Stade Brestois then acceded to the second division following its enlargement in 1970.
In 1979, the Stade Brestois was promoted to the Division 1 for the first time in its history. This apprenticeship year ends with a last place in the standings, but Stade goes back up the following season. The club, whose new president is called François Yvinec, is this time quite comfortably in Division 1. Despite a certain instability in the post of coach, the Breton club confirmed its place in the elite during the following seasons.
The peak with the Brest Armorique then the brutal fall (1982–1991).
In 1983, President François Yvinec decided to change the name of the club to that of "FC Brest Armorique" in order to better specify the geographical location of the club. The year 1986 is a turning point in the life of the club. From this season, the Bretons embark on the path of "football-business" by recruiting South American stars, who after a fanfare debut allow them to reach a historic (and still unmatched) 8th place in Division 1 in 1987. However, behind the scenes, the rupture between the president and the coach Raymond Keruzoré leads to the resignation of the latter, then to the withdrawal of the main sponsor, the Leclerc stores.
Young Paul Le Guen, Vincent Guérin and Patrick Colleter are not enough to keep the club going, which went down to Division 2 in 1988 with its promising young generation. It was against the Racing Club de Strasbourg that they regained their place in the elite a year later after play-offs which remain as a great moment in the history of the club.
Back in the first division, the Brest team is made up of talented young players such as Corentin Martins, David Ginola, the Paraguayan Roberto Cabañas or the future world champion Stéphane Guivarc'h, who allow the club to rank well in the elite. But in 1991, despite the 11th place obtained by Brest in the league, the club's significant deficit led to its administrative relegation to the Second Division.
The club on the banks of the Penfeld ended up imploding in December of that same year. During his last match with the rival Guingamp, the invasion of the lawn by the exasperated Brest supporters forces David Ginola to call for calm so that the match can resume. The results of matches played by the club since the start of the competition are void. The club, whose liabilities are estimated at 150 million francs, filed for bankruptcy.
The professional team is dissolved, the Brest players are released. The reserve team, which then plays in the third division, becomes the pennant team.
The years in amateur championships (1991–2004).
In 1993, the club was promoted to the brand new National 1 championship. Following the merger of the two National groups in 1997, the Stade Brestois was relegated to the French Amateur Championship, where three seasons remained.
After ten years in the amateur championships, the Breton club, which regained its original name (in 1993), went back to the National championship in 2000, where four seasons remained.
The rebirth of Stade Brestois (2004–2024).
In 2004, led by a young Franck Ribéry, the club secured promotion to Ligue 2, the second division of French football. The club managed to stay at this level in the following years. However, Brest was not a serious candidate for promotion until the end of the decade. The 2009–10 season saw the Breton club, coached by Alex Dupont, finish in second place, which secured automatic promotion to Ligue 1, following a 2–0 victory against Tours on 30 April 2010. In addition, the team had a good run in the Coupe de France, eventually falling in the round of 16 to RC Lens in extra time.
The club managed to ensure its position in the top division, obtained on 29 May 2011 despite a defeat at home against Toulouse. During the 2011–12 season, Brest secured its place in the first division with a win over Évian on the final day of the season. It was also the club's first away win during the campaign.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former and current players who have represented Stade Brestois in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1903. To appear in the section below, a player must have either played in at least 80 official matches for the club or represented their country's national team either while playing for Brest or after departing the club.
"For a complete list of Stade Brestois players, see ."
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
Partnership.
Since September 2011, Stade Brestois 29 sponsors its amateur American counterpart in New York City, Stade Brestois New York.
Notes.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="4612509" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4612509" title="FC Gueugnon">
FC Gueugnon

French association football club
Football club
Football Club Gueugnonnais (commonly called Gueugnon ) is a French association football club based in Gueugnon, Burgundy. The club was formed in 1940 and plays its home matches at the Stade Jean Laville located within the city.
The club has spent majority of its history in the second and third tiers of French football, with short spells in the top flight. It has had success at national level, most notably winning the League Cup in 2000, Ligue 2 in 1979 and reaching the semi-finals of the French Cup in 1991.
The club faced bankruptcy in 2011 and subsequently reformed in the sixth tier; since then it has aimed to climb back up the league pyramid.
History.
Football Club de Gueugnon was founded in 1940. Upon the club's creation, it earned the nickname "Les Forgerons" ("The Blacksmiths"), due to having strong support from the commune's local steelworks area. The club won the Championnat de France amateur in 1947 and, by 1970, were playing in the second division of French football. In 1974, inspired by playmaker Casimir Nowotarski, Gueugnon reached the second division promotion play-offs, but lost to Rouen. In 1979, the club won the second division title, however, due to the club's non-professional status and its inability to gain professional status by the start of the 1979–80 season, it was not allowed to participate in the first division.
The 1980s steel crisis forced the club to turn professional, and after several seasons of struggles to prevent relegation, the tide turned in 1991 when Gueugnon reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France where the club was defeated by AS Monaco. In 1995, Gueugnon earned were officially promoted to Division 1 for the first time in the club's history after finishing runner-up in the second division, behind EA Guingamp. The promotion was short-lived, though, as the club returned to the lower league after an unsuccessful debut season.
In 2000, Gueugnon shocked French football supporters around the country after winning the Coupe de la Ligue. The club defeated the two-time champions of the competition Paris Saint-Germain 2–0 in the final. The victory resulted in Gueugnon becoming the first and only club to win the cup while playing in Ligue 2. The resulting success led to drastic consequences as many of the club's top players such as Sylvain Distin departed the club for better sporting and monetary opportunities. The following season, Gueugnon played the UEFA Cup but lost to Greek club Iraklis 1–0 on aggregate in the first round. After that season, the club hovered mid-table and just barely avoided relegation in 2004 with a 5–0 win over Lorient on the final match day of the season. The 2007–08 season proved disastrous with the club remaining blocked in the last position for most of the season. With only five wins overall, Gueugnon were relegated to third-tier National.
At the beginning of the season 2009–10, former French international Tony Vairelles joined the club and, subsequently, became the club's main investor. On 27 October 2009, his father, Guy Vairelles, became Gueugnon's new chairman.
The club continued to play in the Championnat National, until entering liquidation in April 2011. In the summer of 2011, the club was reformed and joined the DH Bourgogne at the sixth tier of French football. Gueugnon won DH Bourgogne in 2012-13 season and was promoted to CFA 2.
Rivalries.
Most Gueugnon supporters consider Montceau Bourgogne and Louhans-Cuiseaux as the club primary rivals due to each club's close proximity to each other.
Montceau are Gueugnon's historic rivals with both club being separated by less than . Gueugnon's rivalry with Montceau stems from the early 80s, in which the latter chairman Gérard Clayeux attempted by pry away several of Gueugnon's top players by offering to increase their wages. The resulting outcry led to the town, club, and support of Gueugnon developing a hatred towards their nearby foes. Gueugnon have a remarkable record against its rivals. The club has never lost a league game against Montceau, however, due to the club's not being in the same league for 20 years, the record has become skewed. On 20 October 2009, Gueugnon and Montceau faced off against each other in the Coupe de France. Montceau were surprise winners defeating Gueugnon 3–1, thus beating Gueugnon for the first ever time in an official competition.
Louhans-Cuiseaux have always been one of Gueugnon's rivals. Not only because the two clubs are relatively close to each other or because they have been in the same division for a long period of time, but also because Gueugnon sent Louhans down by holding them 1–1 on the last day of the Ligue 2 season in 1984–85. Since the 2008–09 season, the two clubs regularly met due to each playing in the Championnat National.
Players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Gueugnon in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1940. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Gueugnon players, see "
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="492068" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492068" title="Olympique de Marseille">
Olympique de Marseille

Association football club in Marseille
Football club
Olympique de Marseille (, ; , ), also known simply as Marseille or by the abbreviation OM (, ), is a French professional football club based in Marseille that competes in Ligue 1, the top flight of French football. Founded in 1899, the club has won nine league titles, ten Coupe de France titles, three Coupe de la Ligue titles, three Trophée des Champions titles, a national record of one UEFA Champions League and a joint national record of one UEFA Intertoto Cup. Additionally, Marseille has played in three UEFA Europa League finals. In 1993, coach Raymond Goethals led the team to become the first and only French club to win the UEFA Champions League, defeating Milan 1–0 in the final, the first under the UEFA Champions League branding of the tournament. In 2010, Marseille won its first Ligue 1 title in 18 years under the management of former club captain Didier Deschamps.
Marseille's home ground is the 67,394-capacity Stade Vélodrome in the southern part of the city, where they have played since 1937. The club has a large fan-base, having regularly averaged the highest attendance in French football. Marseille's average home gate for the 2018–19 season was 50,361, the highest in Ligue 1. The stadium underwent renovation from 2011 to 2014, increasing its capacity to 67,000 ahead of France's hosting of UEFA Euro 2016.
In 1997, Marseille was purchased by Franco-Swiss businessman Robert Louis-Dreyfus. Following his death in 2009, his widow Margarita became the club's majority shareholder in 2010. American businessman Frank McCourt bought 95% of the club's stake in 2016, and appointed businessman Jacques-Henri Eyraud as the club president, later replaced by Pablo Longoria in 2021.
Marseille was placed twenty-eighth in the global ranking drawn up by the British consultancy organisation Brand Finance in terms of brand power, where it was rated with a credit rating AA ("very strong") with a score of 71.3 out of 100, as well as twenty-eighth in terms of brand value (€173 million) and twenty-eighth by enterprise value (€458 million as of 2023).
History.
Olympique de Marseille was founded as an omnisport club in 1892 by René Dufaure de Montmirail, a French sports official. Known as Sporting Club, US Phocéenne and Football Club de Marseille in the first seven years after its foundation, the club adopted the name "Olympique de Marseille" in 1899 in honour of the anniversary of Marseille's founding by Greeks from Phocaea some 25 centuries earlier, with the name Olympique, coming from ancient Olympic Games.
At first, rugby union was the most important team sport of the club, the motto "Droit au but" coming from rugby. Affiliated with the Union des Sociétés Françaises de Sports Athlétiques (USFSA) since 1898, it was only in 1902, thanks to English and German people (according to André Gascard), that football began to be played by Olympique de Marseille. Richer and better organised than other football teams of Marseille (Sporting, Stade, Phocéenne), Olympique de Marseille, then playing at the Stade de l'Huveaune, took the leadership in the city. In 1904, Olympique de Marseille won the first "Championnat du Littoral", involving opposing teams from Marseille and its suburbs, and took part in the final rounds of the 11th French championship. At that time, the word "football" applied to rugby, and people used the word ""Association" (which would be soccer in North America)" for football.
During the 1920s, Olympique de Marseille became an important team in France, winning the Coupe de France in 1924, 1926 and 1927. The team won the French championship in 1929, defeating Club français. The Coupe de France in 1924 was the club's first major title, won against FC Sète, a side that dominated French football at the time. In the '20s, numerous French internationals, such as Jules Dewaquez, Jean Boyer or Joseph Alcazar, played for Marseille. In 1930, Marseille lost against Sète, which would be the winner, in the semi-final round. In 1931, the team became champion of the South-East, with victories against rivals such as Sète. In the Coupe de France, l'OM lost in five matches to Club français, winning the second match that was cancelled due to the disqualification of Marseille striker Vernicke. Even though the 1931–32 season was less successful, Marseille easily entered the professional ranks, becoming a member of the union of professional clubs in 1932. On 13 January 1932 at 9:15 pm, at the Brasserie des Sports, Mr. Dard, Mr. Bison, Dr. Rollenstein, Mr. Etchepare, Mr. Leblanc, Mr. Mille, Mr. Anfosso, Mr. Sabatier, Mr. Seze, Mr. Bazat, Mr. Molteroj and Mr. Pollack elected the following committee:
Honorary presidents: Paul Le Cesne et Fernand Bouisson
President: M. Dard
Vice-Presidents: Mr. Leblanc, Mr. Bison, Mr. Etchepare, Dr. Rollenstein et Mr. Anfosso
general secretary: Mr. Possel-Daydier
Treasurer: Mr Bison (assisted by Mr Ribel).
For the first championship, Division 1 was divided into two pools. Marseille finished second in the first, behind Lille. For its first match of the championship, Marseille defeated the future champion, Lille. In 1937, Marseille won its first professional French championship thanks to goal difference "(+30 for Marseille, +17 for Sochaux)". The arrival of Vasconcellos made the defence stronger, whereas former goalkeeper Laurent Di Lorto shone with Sochaux and France. In the meantime, Marseille won the Coupe de France in 1935 and 1938 but failed a double success in 1934, due to FC Sète. In 1938, Larbi Benbarek signed with Marseille and became "the black pearl" for the team. World War II would cut his career short. The 1942–43 season was full of records: 100 goals in 30 matches, including 20 in one match (20–2 against Avignon), in which Aznar scored nine goals, including the first eight (Marseille was leading 8–0), playing only 70 minutes. Aznar scored 45 goals in 30 matches, plus 11 in cup games, for a record of 56 goals in 38 matches. With the "minots" (young players) of the moment (Scotti, Robin, Dard, Pironti), Marseille won the cup in two matches against Bordeaux (4–0). In 1948, thanks to a draw against Sochaux, Marseille became the champions of France. The two last victories at the Stade Vélodrome against Roubaix (6–0) and Metz (6–3) were important, as Aznar and Robin's returned in spring.
In 1952, Marseille were about to be relegated, but Gunnar Andersson saved his team, finishing as top scorer with 31 goals. The team won (5–3) on aggregate against Valenciennes. The same year, Marseille lost at the Stade Vélodrome against Saint-Étienne 10–3, but Liberati was injured. In 1953, Gunnar Andersson would take the record of goals scored in one season with 35. Andersson also became the all-time top scorer of Olympique de Marseille during his time there with 194 goals. A record he still holds (2023). Marseille was runner-up in the Coupe de France (Nice won 2–1) in 1954 and won the Coupe Charles Drago in 1957. Marseille were struggling at the time and were relegated for the first time in 1959. From 1959 to 1965, the team played in the second division, except during the 1962–63 season, finishing 20th out of 20 in the first division. In 1965, Marcel Leclerc became president.
1965–1986: Leclerc era and crisis.
The first period of Olympique de Marseille's domination of the French League started in the early 1970s under Marcel Leclerc's presidency (1965–1972). His ambition allowed Marseille to return to the First division in 1965–66. They went on to win the "Coupe de France" in 1969 as well as the First division in 1971 with a record of 44 goals by Josip Skoblar, helped by Roger Magnusson. The arrival of Georges Carnus and Bernard Bosquier from Saint-Étienne helped them to win the Ligue 1 and the Coupe de France in 1972. Marseille played in the European Cup in 1971–72 and 1972–73, but were knocked-out by Ajax of Johan Cruyff and Juventus, respectively. However, success was not to last. Marcel Leclerc was forced to leave the club on 19 July 1972. The President was a stubborn man, and he threatened the league to withdraw his professional team from Ligue 1 because the federation refused to accept three foreign players per team (Leclerc wanted to acquire the Hungarian star Zoltán Varga but he had already the maximum number of two foreigners in his team). Marseille decided, instead of following Leclerc against the league, to fire him. Then followed an era of crisis, with Marseille only winning a Coupe de France in 1976 and being relegated to the second division, where they played with a bunch of young local players: the "Minots" who allowed the team to return to First division in 1984. Éric Di Meco was one of them.
1986–1996: Tapie era, Champions League win, bribery scandal, and decline.
On 12 April 1986, Bernard Tapie became president, thanks to Marseille mayor Gaston Defferre, and promptly built the greatest team seen in France up to that point. His first signings were Karl-Heinz Forster and Alain Giresse, who were bought after the 1986 FIFA World Cup. Tapie signed a large number of highly regarded players over the next six years in his pursuit of the European Cup, such as Jean-Pierre Papin, Abedi Pele, Klaus Allofs, Eric Cantona, Chris Waddle, Enzo Francescoli, Manuel Amoros, Carlos Mozer, Jean Tigana, Didier Deschamps, Dragan Stojković, Basile Boli, Marcel Desailly, Rudi Völler, and Alen Bokšić as well as appointing high-profile coaches like Franz Beckenbauer, Gérard Gili and Raymond Goethals. Between 1989 and 1992, Olympique de Marseille won four league titles in a row and the French Cup. The team also reached the Champions Cup final for the first time in 1991, losing on penalties to Red Star Belgrade. The highlight of the club's history is winning the new format Champions League in 1993. Basile Boli scored the only goal against Italy's Milan in the final held in Munich's Olympic Stadium. That triumph was the first time ever for a French club and it made Didier Deschamps and Fabien Barthez the youngest captain and goalkeeper, respectively, to capture the title.
This triumph, however, was followed by a decade of decline. In 1994, due to financial irregularities and a match-fixing scandal involving then-president Bernard Tapie, they suffered enforced relegation to the second division, where Marseille stayed for two years before returning to the First division. Moreover, they lost their 1992–93 Division 1 title and the right to play in the 1993–94 UEFA Champions League, the 1993 European Super Cup and the 1993 Intercontinental Cup. This scandal, called "l'affaire VA-OM" (VA for Union Sportive Valenciennes-Anzin and OM for Olympique de Marseille), was exposed by Valenciennes, whose players Jacques Glassmann, Jorge Burruchaga and Christophe Robert were contacted by Marseille player Jean-Jacques Eydelie to let OM win and, more importantly, not to injure any OM player ahead of the UEFA Champions League final.
1996–2009: Return to success.
Marseille returned to the top flight in 1996 with backing from Adidas's CEO Robert Louis-Dreyfus. He chose Rolland Courbis as coach, signed Fabrizio Ravanelli, Laurent Blanc and Andreas Köpke, and Marseille finished eleventh for his return. For the 1998–99 season, the team celebrated their centenary and built a team of stars: Robert Pires, Florian Maurice and Christophe Dugarry, culminating in a second-place finish in the French championship, behind Bordeaux and an appearance in the UEFA Cup Final in 1999, losing to Parma. Courbis left the team in November 1999 after a poor start to the season.
The closest Marseille got to another trophy was when they reached the UEFA Cup Final in 2004, impressively beating Dnipro, Internazionale, Liverpool and Newcastle United along the way. But they were beaten in the final by newly crowned Spanish champions Valencia and once again fans were forced to continue waiting for the next trophy to come along. In 2005, Marseille succeeded in winning the Intertoto Cup, beating the likes of Lazio and Deportivo de La Coruña in doing so, and earning another shot at the UEFA Cup.
In January 2007, there was negotiation between Louis-Dreyfus and Jack Kachkar, a Canadian doctor and businessman (CEO of pharmaceutical company Inyx), about selling the club. As Jack Kachkar took too much time to buy the team, Louis-Dreyfus decided on 22 March 2007 not to sell to the Canadian businessman. Another close call to glory was in the Coupe de France final against Sochaux in May 2007. However, they lost on penalties after a 2–2 draw after extra time, to the disappointment of everyone linked with the club, but they soon wiped all that disappointment away by qualifying for the 2007–08 UEFA Champions League group stage after securing second place with one game to spare.
In the Champions League, Marseille became the first French team to win at Anfield when they beat 2007 runners-up Liverpool 1–0, and the team took six out of six points from their opening two games. They only drew one more match, and in a winner-takes-all final group game they lost 4–0 to Liverpool, who became the first English team to win at the Stade Vélodrome. Marseille, coming third in the Champions League Group A, then joined the UEFA Cup.
Marseille finished the 2008–09 season with a second-place finish in Ligue 1, following a tight race with Bordeaux for the title. This earned them direct entry into the group stages of the UEFA Champions League, their third consecutive season in the competition. Marseille won the 2010 Coupe de la Ligue Final beating Bordeaux 3–1 at the Stade de France in March 2010. This was their first major title since their Champions League triumph 17 years earlier. Two months later, Marseille won their first league championship for 18 years with two games to spare after beating Rennes 3–1. Marseille defeated rivals Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) on penalties to win the 2010 Trophée des Champions at Stade 7 Novembre in Rades, Tunisia, before the season began. Marseille then became the first team to win back-to-back Coupe de la Ligue successes when they won the 2011 edition by beating Montpellier 1–0 on 23 April. Before that, they qualified for the last 16 of the UEFA Champions League for the first time since their historic success, but lost 2–1 at Old Trafford to Manchester United and also set a Champions League record by thrashing Žilina 7–0 in what was the biggest away win in the competition's history. In 2011, Marseille lost the Ligue 1 championship title but qualified for the UEFA Champions League for the fifth time in a row, a club record. On 27 July 2011, Marseille won the 2011 Trophée des Champions title by beating Lille 5–4 at Stade de Tanger in Morocco. The result was significant as OM were 3–1 down with five minutes to go, only to embark on a remarkable comeback which saw 5 goals scored in the last five minutes with André Ayew scoring a hat-trick.
2009–2014: Deschamps, Baup, Anigo.
The club struggled in the 2011–12 season, going to the bottom of the Ligue 1 table after six matches. Nevertheless, Marseille rebounded, winning 3–0 against Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League, as well as a 3–0 success over rivals PSG in November of that year. Marseille ended 2011 with a good sequence, also qualifying for the knockout stages of the Champions League for the second season running.
In February 2012, Marseille embarked on 13 games without victory, but rallied to qualify for the quarter-finals of the Champions League for the first time since winning the competition in 1993. Despite an indifferent club form, OM lost to eventual finalists Bayern Munich, and slumped to an overall tenth-place finish in Ligue 1. However, the club retained the Coupe de la Ligue for the third year running, beating Lyon 1–0 in the Final.
In the summer of 2012, Deschamps resigned, and later took on the France job. Elie Baup took over, leading the club to a surprising second-place finish in the 2012–13 season despite selling multiple key players, including Loïc Rémy, César Azpilicueta and Stéphane Mbia. Marseille returned to the Champions League, spending close to €40 million on the likes of Dimitri Payet, Florian Thauvin and Giannelli Imbula. The club were top of the table at the end of August 2013, but OM proceeded to lose all six games in Europe, suffering the ignominy of becoming the first French team, and the biggest European team to date, to have picked up zero points in a Champions League group stage.
Baup was sacked on 7 December 2013, following the 1–0 defeat to Nantes at Stade Velodrome. He was replaced on an interim basis by José Anigo. In Anigo's brief tenure, OM went out of the two cups, and struggled, leading to continued protests and jeers by fans. The club finished sixth in the 2014 season, missing out on an important European competition place for the first time in ten years. Anigo left the club soon after, taking on an ambassadorial/scouting role in North Africa, his first post outside of the city for more than four decades.
2014–2015: Bielsa era and stagnation.
Marseille announced on 2 May 2014 an agreement with Marcelo Bielsa, who took the managerial hotseat. Bielsa was the club's first Argentine coach and the first coach to lead the team into the renovated Velodrome, which opened in August with a fixture against Montpellier. In Bielsa's first season in charge, the club led the league table for seven months but finished fourth and thus qualified for the UEFA Europa League. June 2015 saw three key players leave the club—André-Pierre Gignac and André Ayew left the club for Tigres and Swansea City, respectively, after their contracts expired, while Dimitri Payet left to join West Ham United for a €15 million transfer fee.
After a solid pre-season, which included a 2–0 win over Juventus in the Robert Louis-Dreyfus Trophy and the signature of nine players, Bielsa resigned from his post, just minutes after the first Ligue 1 game of the 2015–16 season against Caen. Marseille lost the game 1–0, and Bielsa shocked the footballing world with his unexpected decision, citing a lack of trust with the club's management, who he said had reneged on a previously agreed contract extension. Bielsa's departure reportedly left his players in a state of shock, many of whom learnt the news via social media in the dressing room.
On 19 August 2015, Míchel was announced as Marseille's new coach. He endured a frustrating season, with OM failing to win a home game in Ligue 1 for more than six months. Following a number of poor performances, Míchel was sacked in April by club owner Margarita Louis Dreyfus, citing poor conduct as the team's coach. The sacking came on the eve of the club's Coupe de France semi-final fixture. As in 2015, Passi was installed as the caretaker coach. Under his direction, Marseille reached the Coupe de France final for the first time in nine years, losing out 4–2 to rivals Paris Saint-Germain. OM would finish the league season in 13th, the club's worst league finish in 15 years.
In the summer of 2016, Marseille once more sold off a number of key players to meet financial obligations and to clear its wage bill ahead of an impending takeover. Steve Mandanda, the club's long-serving captain ended eight years at the club and moved to Crystal Palace, Nicolas N'Koulou moved to Lyon, while striker Michy Batshuayi was sold to Chelsea for a club record €40 million.
2016–present: New ownership and revival.
Marseille began the 2016–17 Ligue 1 season with interim manager Franck Passi at the helm. On 29 August 2016, it was announced that American businessman Frank McCourt had agreed to buy the club from Margarita Louis-Dreyfus. The purchase deal was completed for a reported price tag of €45 million on 17 October 2016. Within the next few days, McCourt appointed Jacques-Henri Eyraud as the club's president, Rudi Garcia as the manager of the club's first team and Andoni Zubizarreta as director of sport.
On 3 May 2018, Marseille reached the final of the 2017–18 UEFA Europa League after eliminating Red Bull Salzburg in the semi-finals 3–2 on aggregate, 14 years after its last final in a European competition in 2004 against Valencia. However, they lost the final to Atlético Madrid.
In the 2019–20 Ligue 1 season, Andre Villas-Boas became head coach. Marseille finished second after the season was ended early due to the coronavirus pandemic, thus qualifying for the 2020–21 UEFA Champions League for the first time since 2013–14.
In February 2021, after this string of losses, conflict with players, and lack of support from sporting director Pablo Longoria and President Jacques-Henri Eyraud, head coach Andre Villas-Boas offered to resign, three days after a violent riot by protesting Marseille fans at the team training grounds had forced postponement of a league match with Rennes. Marseille sacked Villas-Boas, and replaced the coach with Argentine Jorge Sampaoli. The club also appointed Pablo Longoria to be the team's new president, replacing Jacques-Henri Eyraud, as Eyraud had also been a target of the ire of Marseille fans.
In January 2022, Marseille player Pape Gueye was banned from playing for 4 months by FIFA, while Marseille were given a ban on making transfers in both the summer 2022 and January 2023 transfer windows, and forced to pay €2.5 million to Watford. This came after the English club brought litigation against Marseille over the transfer of Gueye, who had originally signed a contract with Watford, but after finding out his agent had lied to him about the salary on offer, broke the contract and signed with Marseille. Marseille appealed FIFA's decision. In the 2021–22 Ligue 1 season, Marseille finished in second place, securing Champions League football for the first time since 2020. In the final matchday, they were helped by Lens's equalizing goal in the final moments of a 2–2 draw with Monaco.
Le Classique.
Le Classique is a football match that is contested between Paris Saint-Germain and Olympique de Marseille. The term Classique is modelled on El Clásico, contested between Barcelona and Real Madrid. Akin to all the game's major rivalries, the antipathy between PSG and Marseille extends outside the pitch. The French "clásico" has a historical, cultural and social importance that makes it more than just a football game, pitching capital against province, and the traditional wealth and high culture of Paris against the industrial and cosmopolitan traditions of Marseille. However, this rivalry appears only in the 1990s, where it is promoted by the respective owners of PSG - Canal+, the TV channel which broadcast the Ligue 1 football matches - and Olympique de Marseile - Bernard Tapie, also owner of the sports company Adidas -, for obvious marketing reasons. It is sometimes seen as 'the favourite son' of French football against its "enfants terribles". With PSG being located in the north in the French capital and Marseille located along the Mediterranean coast, the rivalry is often referred to as "the North versus the South." PSG and Marseille are two of just three French clubs to have won major European trophies, PSG having won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1996 and Marseille won the UEFA Champions League in 1993, and they were the two dominant forces before the emergence of Lyon at the beginning of the 21st century. However, despite their recent ups and downs, PSG and Marseille remain fierce rivals, giving this match a special atmosphere. "Le Classique" is also known as "Le Classico".
Stadium.
From 1904 to 1937, Marseille played at the Stade de l'Huveaune, a stadium owned by the club, in contrast to its current stadium. L'Huveaune, once named Stade Fernand Buisson in honour of a former rugby player of the club who became a member of the French National Assembly, was renovated at the beginning of the twenties, thanks to supporter's financial help. It had a capacity of . In 1937, "l'OM" moved into the much larger Stade Vélodrome after compelling the city of Marseille to lower its rent. The club made use of the Stade de l'Huveaune again during the renovation of the Vélodrome for Euro 1984, during the 1982/83 season. The Vélodrome again underwent redevelopment in time for the 1998 World Cup and was transformed into an immense ground composed of two Curva ends (Virage Nord and Virage Sud – North Curve and South Curve) which house the supporters groups as well as the main stand, Jean Bouin, and the imposing Ganay stand. In a third renovation, in preparation for Euro 2016, the municipality covered the stands with a roof, and increased its capacity to 67,000 to host the Euro 2016 games.
Before the start of each home game the song "Jump" by Van Halen is heard.
When a goal is scored by Marseille in their home matches the song "Come with Me" by Puff Daddy is played.
Kits and crest.
Marseille's traditional kit colours were white shirts and shorts with blue socks until 1986. Since 1986, Marseille have played with white shirts, white shorts and white socks, and the blue color became lighter due to Adidas marketing but in 2012–2013, the club returned to its original kit, wearing blue socks.
Club founder drew inspiration from his personal seal, which featured interlaced letters "D" and "M", to create the club's first badge. The club's motto, "Droit au but", dates from the days when the club's main sport was rugby, under the name "Football Club de Marseille". The original badge featured an ornate letter "M" superimposed over an "O", with the club motto draped across the glyph. The logo persisted for three decades, until 1935, when an art deco shield was adopted, with a simple "M" encased within the "O". In 1972, OM redesigned its logo, this time preferring a complex "M" letterform. In 1986, the club re-adopted its first badge; the logo evolved slightly over the next few decades, gaining a star in 1993 to commemorate the club's UEFA Champions League trophy. To commemorate the club's 100th anniversary in 1999, a variant featuring a golden "O" and a turquoise "M" was used; a similar 110th anniversary logo was used during the 2009–10 season. The most recent form was revealed on 17 February 2004; the "O" and "M" are rendered as a single unit in turquoise without shading or borders, and the logo is capped by the golden star representing the victory in the Champions League and sits above. The club's motto "Droit Au But" (French for "Straight to the Goal") also rendered in gold appears under the badge.
Supporters.
Virage Nord De Peretti.
The atmosphere in the Stade Vélodrome is created by the dominance of OM's own supporters who are located in the Curva style ends behind both goals. The North Curve is home to the Marseille Trop Puissant, Fanatics, and Dodger's supporters associations who buy up the tickets at the start of each season and sell them on to their members. The Virage Nord is next to the away enclosure, which is protected by high fences. In 2002, the Virage Nord was officially given the name of Patrice de Peretti "(1972–2000)", the late founder and leader of the supporters group Marseille Trop Puissant (MTP). In 2010, the third kit of OM was a tribute to MTP, with the red, yellow and green colours of Africa, symbols of this left-wing curva. In 2018, owner Frank McCourt and president Jacques-Henri Eyraud decided to exclude the Yankee Nord due to a number of delictuous activities, especially concerning tickets ; they therefore forbid them to sell the said tickets, and the association is no longer officially recognized by the club.
Virage Sud Chevalier Roze.
The virage is named after Nicolas Roze, a noble who distinguished himself in particular by creating a hospital in Marseille during the Great Plague of Marseille in 1720. As with the Virage Nord, the South Curve is controlled by supporter's associations with the Commando Ultra '84, the first group of ultra supporters in France created in August 1984, and the South Winners dominating the central section and Club Central des Supporters filling the remaining sections of the stand.
The 2007/08 third shirt of OM was a tribute to South Winners fans whose colours are orange, as they are traditionally left wing fans.
AEK Athens, Livorno and St. Pauli.
There is a strong relationship between AEK Athens, Livorno, FC St. Pauli and Marseille. Marseille fans often lift banners and create choreography in support of the fellow teams.
 "As of 1 February 2024"
Players.
First-team squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Marseille B and Youth Sector.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Honours.
Marseille have won the French national championship nine times; with nine Ligue 1 titles they are behind only Saint-Étienne, who have ten, and Paris Saint-Germain, who have eleven. However, the first championship won by Marseille was in 1929, before the professional era of French football. Marseille also have the second best record in the Coupe de France, with ten titles. Marseille have achieved two championship and cup "Doubles", in 1972 and 1989. They are the only French club to win the UEFA Champions League, doing so in 1993.
Ballon d'Or.
The following players received the Ballon d'Or award whilst playing for Olympique de Marseille:
Two other former Ballon d'Or winners were hired by Olympique de Marseille: George Weah played for Marseille in 2000–01 after winning the Ballon d'Or in 1995 and Franz Beckenbauer coached the team for six months in 1990.
European Golden Shoe.
The following players have won the European Golden Shoe whilst playing for Olympique de Marseille:
UNFP Player of the Year.
The following players have won the UNFP Player of the Year whilst playing for Olympique de Marseille:
UNFP Young Player of the Year.
The following players have won the UNFP Young Player of the Year whilst playing for Olympique de Marseille:
Footnotes.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="4962683" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4962683" title="Valenciennes FC">
Valenciennes FC

Football club based in Valenciennes, France
Football club
Valenciennes Football Club (; commonly known as Valenciennes or USVA) is a French association football club based in Valenciennes. The club was founded in 1913 and currently play in Ligue 2, the second tier of French football. Valenciennes plays its home matches at the recently built Stade du Hainaut located within the city.
Valenciennes was founded under the name Union Sportive de Valenciennes Anzin (USVA). The club spent over 80 years playing under the name before switching to its current name. Valenciennes has spent an equal amount of time playing in Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 having played 40 seasons in the first division and 36 seasons in the second division. The club has never won the first division, but has won Ligue 2 on two occasions. Valenciennes has also won the Championnat National and the Championnat de France amateur in 2005 and 1998, respectively. In 1951, the club made its first and only appearance in a Coupe de France final.
From 2004 to 2011, Valenciennes was presided over by Francis Decourrière, a former politician who served as a Member of the European Parliament under the Social Democratic Party from 1994 to 1999 and later the "Union pour la Démocratie Française" ("Union for French Democracy") from 1999 to 2004. In 2011, Decourrière left the position and was replaced by Jean-Raymond Legrand.
History.
Valenciennes Football Club was founded in 1913 by a group of young men known by surnames Colson, Joly, and Bouly. Due to the club having limited resources and its formation coinciding with the onset of World War I, Valenciennes sought a consolidation between locals clubs in the city. The merger was completed in 1916 with the club changing its name to Union Sportive de Valenciennes Anzin (USVA) in the process. Following the merger, the new club spent the ensuing 15 years playing the "District de l'Escaut" Championship. In July 1930, the National Council of the French Football Federation voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. Valenciennes, under the leadership of president M. Le Mithouard, achieved professionalism in 1933 and were inserted into the second division. The club, subsequently, became a founding member of the second division of French football.
In the second division's inaugural season, Valenciennes finished in 7th place in its group. In the following season, the league table was converted into a single table and Valenciennes finished in 2nd-place position earning promotion to Division 1 as a result. During this period, the club was notably led by foreign players such as Englishmen Peter O'Dowd and George Gibson and the German-born attackers Édouard Waggi and Ignace Kowalczyk. In the club's first season in Division 1, Valenciennes finished 15th place falling back to Division 2. The club finished equal on points with Red Star Olympique, but due to having less wins and a lesser goal difference, Valenciennes were relegated. After suffering relegation, the club brought in a new president known by the surname of Turbot. Soon after arriving, Turbot released several of the club's international players and brought in the likes of Ernest Libérati to replace them. The transition was a success with the club earning promotion back to Division 1 in 1937. However, Valenciennes stint back in Division 1 was the equivalent of its first. The club finished in last place in the 1937–38 season and relegated back to Division 2. Due to World War II, Valenciennes reverted to amateur status and spent three of the six seasons in wartime playing amateur league football.
After the war, Valenciennes turned professional again and were back in the second division. The club spent a decade in Division 2 before earning promotion the top-flight ahead of the 1956–57 season. Under manager Charles Demeillez, in 1951, Valenciennes reached the final of the Coupe de France. In the final, the club faced Strasbourg and were humbled 3–0 at the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir in the Colombes. In the club's return to Division 1, Valenciennes finished in the latter part of the table for three consecutive seasons. In 1959, Valenciennes reached the final of the Coupe Drago, but were defeated 3–2 in extra time by Lens at the Parc des Princes. In the 1959–60 season, Valenciennes achieved its best finish in Division 1 after finishing 8th in the table. However, manager Robert Domergue was unable to keep the consistency as Valenciennes finished 19th in the following season. Valenciennes, now being led by youngsters Bolec Kocik and Serge Masnaghetti, achieved promotion back to Division 1 after one season and spent the next nine years playing in Division 1. During the stint, Domergue led to club to its highest finish ever in the first division when the club finished 3rd in back-to-back seasons in 1965 and 1966. After the 1966 season, Domergue departed the club and he was replaced by Gaby Robert. Neither Robert or his successor Louis Provelli could match the consistency of Domergue and he returned to the club in 1970. In the club's first season back, Domergue led the club to relegation in 1971, got the club promoted back to the first division in 1972, and coached the club to relegation again in 1973. He departed after the season and was replaced by Jean-Pierre Destrumelle.
After spending the early 1970s hovering between top flight and the second division, Destrumelle led the club back to Division 1 for the 1975–76 season. The manager had vast majority of talent in the club, most notably Bruno Metsu, Bruno Zaremba, Dominique Dropsy, and Didier Six and kept the club in the first division for his entire campaign, however, after finishing in 18th place in 1979, Dustremelle was fired and replaced by the combination of Erwin Wilczek and Bolek Tomowski. Under the duo, Valenciennes lasted in Division 1 until the 1983 season. The club, subsequently, spent the next decade playing in Division 2 under five different managers, which led supporters to slowly become disassociated with the club.
From 1988 to 1991, Valenciennes improved significantly under manager Georges Peyroche. Peyroche left the club in 1991 and Francis Smerecki was named as his replacement. In Smerecki's first season, he led the club back to Division 1. In the club's first season back, Valenciennes were involved in a bribing scandal that effectively dismantled the club for the next decade. The scandal, which involved Marseille midfielder Jean-Jacques Eydelie and the club's general manager under the advisement of club chairman Bernard Tapie bribing Valenciennes players Christophe Robert, Jacques Glassmann, and Jorge Burruchaga, became headline news mainly due to Marseille being the most popular club in the country. It was asserted that the bribe was made in order for Valenciennes players to "take it easy" on Marseille players with the latter club having to play in the 1993 UEFA Champions League Final against Italian club Milan just days later. Marseille beat Valenciennes 1–0 and went on to defeat Milan to become the first French club to win the European competition. After the plot was discovered, Robert admitted to accepting the bribe, Burruchaga admitted to initially agreeing to it, but later changing his mind, while Glassmann said he never agreed to the deal. The subsequent reports of the scandal completely tarnished the Valenciennes's image and several players departed the club amid embarrassment and speculation that they were also involved in the plot. With the club now playing in Ligue 2, Valenciennes was unable to cope with the damage instilled on it due to the scandal and finished dead last in the league, thus falling to the third division for the first time in the club's lifetime. Two seasons later, the club was relegated to the fourth division due to financial problems. Ahead of the 1996–97 season, the club dropped to amateur status after filing for bankruptcy.
On 1 April 1996, the club was renamed Valenciennes Football Club and finished in fifth place in its inaugural campaign under the name. In the following season, the fourth division was renamed to the Championnat de France amateur and Valenciennes became inaugural champions of the league. Over the next seven seasons, Valenciennes played in the Championnat National, excluding one season back in the CFA. In the 2004–05 season, the club won National and returned to the second division, now called Ligue 2. After one season, Valenciennes earned promotion back to the first division, now called Ligue 1, under the leadership of Antoine Kombouaré. After eight years in Ligue 1, the club was relegated to the second division in 2014. Because of this relegation, VAFC experienced financial problems and saw the return to the business of the former minister Jean-Louis Borloo. He saved the club from demotion to the fourth division.
Purchase by Sport Republic (2023-).
After the club held on to its title at the last minute on the final day of the season, rumours of a sale resurfaced. On 16 June 2023, the management published a press release announcing that "the club's majority shareholders had entered into exclusive negotiations with Sport Republic, a London-based sports investment company and majority shareholder in English football club Southampton FC and Turkish football club Göztepe SK, with a view to investing in the club's economic and sporting development "64. On 13 July 2023, following two general meetings, the sale of the club was completed. To embody their plans, the new directors appointed Jorge Maciel as first-team coach. A former assistant at LOSC Lille, this was his first experience as head coach.
 "As of 2 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Valenciennes in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1913.
"For a complete list of Valenciennes players, see ".
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
Management and staff.
Coaching history.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5127325" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5127325" title="FC Sète 34">
FC Sète 34

Football club
FC Sète 34 was a French football club based in Sète and founded in 1901 as Olympique de Cette. The club won the French league title twice (in 1934 and 1939) and the French cup also twice (1930 and 1934). In 1934 they became the first club to win the French league and cup double. At the time, they were using the Georges-Bayrou Stadium. Until 1960, the club played a major role in the French football championship, but due to financial issues, it was forced to give up professional status. From the 1970s until 2005, the club played in secondary levels, before accessing Ligue 2 for one season after finishing at the 3rd rank of Championnat National. The club last played in Championnat National 2, the fourth tier of French football, at Stade Louis Michel in the town. 
In July 2023 the club was placed into judicial liquidation, with the FFF refusing a newly formed association the rights to continue with the FC Sète name. 
History.
The club was founded in 1901 as Olympique de Cette. It ceased activities due to the war in 1914, restarting as FC de Cette. The club was champion of the Ligue du Sud-Est for seven consecutive years from the inception of the competition in 1920 until 1926. In 1928 the name of the town changed from Cette to Sète, and the football club was renamed FC Sète. The club reached consecutive Coupe de France finals in 1929 and 1930, losing 2–0 to SO Montpellier in the first before winning the trophy against Racing Club de France 3–1 after extra time.
In 1932 the club were founder members of the professional Division 1. They finished 4th in the group. The following season they won the Division 1 and Coupe de France double, becoming the first club to do so. They won their second Division 1 title in 1939, the last time the competition was played before World War II.
After the war, the club did not regain its previous heights, finishing no higher than 10th in Division 1, before relegation came in 1954. After six years in Division 2 the club relinquished its professional status and reformed as an amateur team at level two of the regional league (tier seven of the French league structure).
The club spent six years in the same regional division before securing three promotions in four years to return to national Division 2 for the 1970–71 season. A further six seasons followed before relegation to Division 3 in 1977. The club returned to Division 2 as champions of the south group of Division 3 in 1983 and spent six seasons at that level.
At the end of the 1988–89 season, FC Sète were administratively relegated for financial reasons after finishing 15th in group B. The club was officially renamed FC de Sète 34, restarted in Division 3, and moved to their current stadium Stade Louis Michel. They remained at the third level of French football until 1997 when a second administrative relegation dropped them to the fourth level, now named Championnat de France Amateur. After four seasons at this level, they won promotion back to Championnat National in 2001, as champions of group B. In 2005 a 3rd-place finish was enough for promotion to Ligue 2, but the club played just one season at this level before returning to the Championnat National at the end of the 2005–06 season.
A third administrative relegation, again for financial reasons, followed in 2009, and the club reformed for the 2009–10 season in the Division d'Honneur of the Languedoc-Roussillon regional league (tier 6). In 2012 they were promoted to Championnat de France Amateur 2 as champions of the Division d'Honneur and in 2014 they won promotion to Championnat de France Amateur, now called Championnat National 2. The club gained promotion to the Championnat National in the 2019–20 season, after being placed at the top of 2019–20 Championnat National 2 Group C when the season was terminated early due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The club were relegated from the Championnat National by the Direction Nationale du Contrôle de Gestion at the end of the 2021–22 season, on the grounds of financial mismanagement.
The club hit financial troubles again during the 2022–23 season, being placed in receivership in April 2023 after a failed takeover, and estimated year-end debt of €700,000. Placed in judicial liquidation on 6 July 2023, the French Football Federation refused permission for the new organisation to continue the FC Sète name, and a new association "Sporting Club Sétois" was formed.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5477293" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5477293" title="Nîmes Olympique">
Nîmes Olympique

Football club based in Nîmes, France
Football club
Nîmes Olympique (commonly referred to as simply Nîmes) is a French association football club based in Nîmes. The club was founded on 10 April 1937 and currently plays in the Championnat National, the third tier of French football. The Stade des Antonins is the club’s home stadium.
History.
In the 1995–96 season, Nîmes reached the final of the Coupe de France, allowing them to compete the following year in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup. In September 1996, in the Round of 32, Nîmes beat Budapest Honvéd (5–2 on aggregate), before losing to AIK Stockholm in the next round (2–3 on aggregate).
On 5 May 2018, Nîmes secured promotion back to Ligue 1 for the first time since the 1992–93 season after finishing second in Ligue 2. In the 2018–19 season, Nimes finished comfortably above the relegation zone in Ligue 1, placing 9th among 20 teams. In the 2020–21 Ligue 1 season, Nimes finished second from bottom and were relegated to Ligue 2.
On 5 November 2022, Nîmes played its final match at the Stade des Costières, a 1–0 Ligue 2 victory over Bordeaux. The club would move into the Stade des Antonins on a temporary basis, before the demolition of the Stade des Costières would pave the way for the construction of the Stade Nemausus, for a projected completion in 2026.
In the 2022–23 Ligue 2 season, Nimes finished second from the bottom and were relegated to the Championnat National.
 "As of 12 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Nîmes in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1937. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club or represented the national team for which the player is eligible during his stint with Nîmes or following his departure.
"For a complete list of Nîmes Olympique players, see "
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5585769" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5585769" title="Amiens SC">
Amiens SC

Association football club in France
Football club
Amiens Sporting Club (; commonly referred to as Amiens SC or simply Amiens) is a French association football club based in the northern city of Amiens in the Hauts-de-France region. The club was formed in 1901 and play in Ligue 2, the second division of French football. The club plays its home matches at the Stade de la Licorne located within the city. The 2017–18 Ligue 1 season was the first in the club's 116-year history, where they finished in 13th place to secure a position in Ligue 1 for the following year.
History.
Amiens Athlétic Club (AAC) was set up in 1901 by a group of players from the Association du Lycée d'Amiens, French schoolboy champions in 1902, 1903, and 1904. AAC crushed its first opponents, Saint-Quentin, 13–0 a few months after its creation. In April 1902, the "Comité de Picardie de l'U.S.F.S.A" was established by the then-president of the AAC (Henri-Frédéric Petit). AAC dominated the early USFSA league for the first 12 seasons. In 1909, the club got a new ground, at the Henry Daussy Park, allowing an attendance of more than 1,000.
In 1933, the club got its first professional section, later abandoned in 1952, before becoming professional again in 1993. Since the early days, AAC has undergone two name changes: In 1961, to Sporting Club d'Amiens, and in 1989, as Amiens Sporting Club. Amiens played in Ligue 2 between 2001 and 2009.
The team made a return to the second tier of French football for the 2016–17 season, after finishing 3rd in the Championnat National. Their first season back in Ligue 2 was the most successful ever, as they finished runners-up and were promoted to top-tier Ligue 1 for the first time ever. It was a dramatic promotion, too, as they would have dropped out of the promotion places but for a last-gasp winning goal in the final game against Reims. Amiens first season in Ligue 1 ended in survival with a comfortable 13th-placed finish on the table.
In the 2018–19 season, Amiens finished in 15th place on the table and secured their survival after a 2–1 victory over already relegated EA Guingamp.
Despite this, during the 2019–20 season with just 10 games to play, the side sat in 19th position having slipped down the table after a modest start, sitting just 4 points behind 18th placed Nîmes. The LFP suspended Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 indefinitely as a result of the coronavirus outbreak, and on 30 April 2020, the league title was awarded to Paris Saint-Germain and thus the bottom two placed teams, Amiens and Toulouse were automatically relegated to Ligue 2 for the 2020–21 season.
 "As of 8 February 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable former players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Amiens and its predecessors in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1901. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club.
"For a list of former Amiens players, see ."
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
Managers.
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5649700" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5649700" title="FC Mulhouse">
FC Mulhouse

Football club
Football Club de Mulhouse (; commonly referred to as FCM or simply Mulhouse) is a French association football club based in Mulhouse. The club was founded in 1893 and currently play in the Championnat National 3, the fifth level of French football. Mulhouse plays its home matches at the Stade de l'Ill located within the city.
Mulhouse was founded under the name Fussball-Club Mülhausen in what was then Mülhausen, Alsace-Lorraine in Germany. The club's location has been dependent on the control of the Alsace region between France and Germany. Mulhouse has played in French football since the re-acquisition of the region after World War II and is the second-oldest football club in France after Le Havre AC. The club has achieved minimal honours in its history having spent most of its existence playing in the amateur divisions of France. However, Mulhouse have spent seven seasons in Ligue 1 and 27 seasons in Ligue 2. The club's highest honour to date in France was winning the Division d'Honneur in 1928. Regionally, Mulhouse has won the Alsace Division d'Honneur seven times. During the club's stint in Germany, it won the Gauliga Elsaß three times.
Mulhouse has served as a springboard for several football players and managers, most notably Arsène Wenger and Raymond Domenech. In the managerial role Wenger is known for his time at English club Arsenal, but prior to that had successful stints at Nancy, AS Monaco, and Nagoya Grampus. Domenech also played for Mulhouse, and he had his first managerial spell there. He later went on to manage the France national team from 2004 to 2010.
History.
Football Club de Mulhouse was founded in 1893 under the name "Fussball Club Mülhausen" by two young Englishmen enrolled at the Mulhouse Chemistry School in Mülhausen, Alsace-Lorraine, in Germany. The students introduced the sport to their fellow students, and a club was subsequently formed. In 1901, they were joined by a group of footballers known as the "Young Boys" from the Oberrealschule Gymnasium. The club was a member of the VSFV (German: Verband Süddeutscher Fussball Vereine or Federation of South German Football Clubs) by 1904; it suffered a financial crisis in 1905–06, but survived.
France reclaimed the territory of Alsace from Germany after World War I, and FC Mülhausen became part of the regional top flight Division d'Honneur – Alsace as "FC Mulhouse" (FCM) where the club captured the division title in 1921 and finished as vice-champions in 1926. FCM then put together a string of five consecutive division titles from 1928 to 1932. The 1932 regional title was parlayed into a win in the Coupe Sochaux, also known as the Challenge Peugeot, one of the predecessors of the national championship competition first staged the following season.
After the re-organization of French football into a national system, FCM played a single season in the First Division/Group A before being relegated. They played their way back to the top flight in 1934 until again being relegated in 1937.
With the onset of World War II and the re-conquest of Alsace by Germany, FCM returned to that country's football competition in the regional first division Gauliga Elsaß in 1941. They quickly became the dominant side there capturing titles in 1941, 1943, and 1944, but were not able to follow up with any success in the German national championship playoff rounds, being eliminated in the early going on each occasion. Play in the Gauliga was suspended part-way through the 1944–45 season as Allied armies advanced into Germany.
Following the war, FCM was once again returned to French football to play a single season in the second division before slipping to amateur level play, where they would remain until 1970. The club struggled through six seasons in the second division over the course of the decade. However, its performance improved in the 1980s, and FCM became a solid second division side, earning single-season turns in the top flight in 1982–83 and 1989–90. Through the early 1990s the club played as "FC Mulhouse Sud-Alsace" and continued to play second-tier football until relegated in 1998. A financial crisis followed and the club was bankrupted in 1999; it re-organised as an amateur side the following season. In 2005 the club was promoted from the CFA 2 (V) to the third division CFA (Championnat de France), the country's highest class.
In January 2017, the club was bought by American businessman Gary Allen, who saved the club from an immediate threat of bankruptcy by investing 150,000 euros. Ambitious goals to were set, to see the club rise to Ligue 2 in the medium term.
In 2020, the club was administratively relegated from Championnat National 2 due to financial issues, despite finishing 12th in its group. On 12 July 2022, the Grand Est league announced that Mulhouse were to be relegated to Régional 1 for financial reasons, subject to appeal. Four days later, Gary Allen resigned as president of the club, quoting personal reasons. On 21 July 2022, the club was placed into receivership by the courts in Mulhouse, with debts reported to amount to 500,000 euros.
Stadium.
Since 1979, FC Mulhouse has played its home games at the Stade de l'Ill. Between 1906 and the end of World War I the team played in the Stade Vélodrome and, after the war, in the Stade de Bourtzwiller.
 "As of 26 February 2019"
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Had international caps for their respective countries. Players whose name is listed in bold represented their countries while playing for Mulhouse.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5649732" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5649732" title="Chamois Niortais F.C.">
Chamois Niortais F.C.

Association football club in France
Football club
Chamois Niortais Football Club (often referred to as Les Chamois, Chamois Niortais, or simply Niort) is a French association football club based in the commune of Niort, in the Deux-Sèvres department of western France. It was founded in 1925 by Charles Boinot, the son of the owner of a local chamois leather factory. The club's home stadium is the Stade René Gaillard in Niort, which has a capacity of 10,898 although in the last 20 years attendances have generally averaged below 5,000 per match due to the club's relatively small fan base. Chamois Niortais has traditionally played in an entirely blue home strip, although away strips regularly differ.
For the first 20 years of the club's existence they played in local leagues around the Centre-Ouest region. In 1945, after the Second World War, the side joined the Championnat de France amateur. They achieved promotion to Division 3 in 1970 and stayed in the division for the following eight seasons. From 1980 to 1984, the team played in Division 4 before promotion return to Division 3. The club gained professional status for the first time the following year when they were promoted to Division 2. After another promotion in 1987, they played in Division 1 for the 1987–88 season, only, then were relegated next season.
Chamois Niortais were relegated to the Championnat National in 2008, and relegated again the next season, losing their professional status. After finishing as runners-up in the Championnat National, the team were promoted to Ligue 2 for the 2012–13 season.
History.
Early years.
After the First World War, local chamois leather factory owner, Theophile Boinot, established the first sports club in Niort, "Amicale Club Niortais". Soon after, the football section of the club was founded and named "Étoile Sportive Niortaise". In 1923, many players were conscripted into the French army. In 1925, a number of the players returned to the town and Boinot's son, Charles, set up the first proper association football team in the town, which he named "Chamois Niortais Football Club".
For the first season, the presidency of the club was entrusted to Jean Gavaggio, a chemical engineer at the Boinot factory. Georges Poussard, also a worker in the factory, was appointed as the club's first secretary. The original team played in a fully white strip, and competed in the regional championship of the Ligue de Charentes. In 1929, the Swiss footballer Franchina was named as the club's first manager and the first committee was elected. Throughout the 1930s the club continued to grow in size, enlisting more players and members, despite the team performing relatively poorly in the league.
For the 1932–33 season, Chamois Niortais joined the DH Centre-Ouest, the highest level of regional football in France, and finished eighth in their first season. The side achieved consecutive sixth- and seventh-place finishes in the next two seasons, before being relegated to the Promotion d'Honneur in 1936. The team played in the division for three seasons, until they gained promotion back to the DH Centre-Ouest at the end of the 1938–39 campaign. In 1939, Joseph Boinot was appointed president of the club. The following year the club pulled off a major coup with the signing of Czechoslovakia international Ferdinand Faczinek, who played for the club for one season before transferring to FC Sète at the end of the 1940–41 campaign, after which the Second World War halted competitive football for two years in France. In 1943, the club were one of the founder members of the Championnat de France amateur (CFA), the highest level of amateur football in France.
After the Second World War.
Chamois Niortais were relegated from the CFA to the DH Centre-Ouest in 1945. Led by Faczinek, who had returned to the club as player-manager in 1943, the side won the DH Centre-Ouest for three consecutive seasons. Faczinek left the club in 1948 and was replaced by former France international Maurice Banide. The team re-joined the CFA for the 1948–49 season and played in the division for the following five campaigns, achieving a second-place finish in 1951, when they finished behind Stade Quimpérois by five points. In 1953, the side finished bottom of the division and were relegated to the DH Centre-Ouest. Manager Nicolas Hibst was sacked and replaced by Georges Hatz, who had previously coached AJ Auxerre. The side remained in the DH Centre-Ouest until 1960 when, under the guidance of Nordine Ben Ali, they won the league title by a point ahead of Poitiers FC to return to the CFA.
The side struggled in their first season back in the third tier, achieving a tenth-placed finish. After being runners-up in the division for two consecutive seasons in 1961–62 and 1962–63, the team secured a number of mid-table league finishes under Kazimir Hnatow. After Hnatow left Chamois Niortais in 1966, the club's fortunes on the pitch began to diminish and they were eventually relegated at the end of the 1968–69 campaign after ending the season with just 12 points from 26 matches. Upon the restructuring of the league system, the team joined the newly formed Division 3 in 1970. They played there for the following eight years, but never finished higher than fourth in the division. In 1978, the club finished last and were again relegated to the fourth level, but were immediately promoted back to Division 3 after finishing as runners-up in 1979. However, they again finished bottom of the division and in 1980 returned to Division 4, where they played for the next four seasons. In April 1984, Patrick Parizon was appointed as manager and the following month, the side secured a third-placed finish to gain promotion back to Division 3. In 1984–85, the team lost only three matches in the entire campaign as they finished comfortably top of the division. A 2–1 victory over Montauban on 18 May 1985 confirmed their promotion to Division 2 for the first time in the history of Chamois Niortais.
Professional status.
Thanks to the promotion, Chamois Niortais became a professional club for the 1985–86 season. The season began well for the side, as they achieved a 1–0 win against USL Dunkerque on 16 July 1985. They went on to accomplish a respectable fifth-placed finish in their first season with a total of 37 points. The next campaign saw unprecedented success for the team, as they racked up a 17-match unbeaten run on the way to the league championship. Their title triumph was confirmed with a 2–0 victory over US Orléans at the Stade René Gaillard on 23 May 1987.
The following season turned out to be the club's only season to date in the top tier of French football. The season began with a 1–1 draw with Lens and the side's first victory came against Montpellier on 1 August 1987. The team also managed a win in their first ever televised match, defeating Saint-Étienne 2–1 on 18 August 1987. After a promising start, the team languished around the bottom of the division for the majority of the campaign, and were eventually relegated back to Division 2 on 10 June 1988, after being beaten 3–0 by Caen, finishing just one point behind Lens.
The relegation saw the end of Patrick Parizon's reign as head coach as he was replaced by Victor Zvunka. Zvunka remained manager for the following three seasons, until the side were relegated to Division 3 at the end of the 1990–91 campaign. The team returned to the second tier after just one season as they comfortably won Division 3. The next 13 consecutive seasons saw a number of mid-table finishes in Ligue 2, until a poor 2004–05 campaign, in which the team lost 21 of their 38 league matches. Philippe Hinschberger was appointed as the new manager in 2005, and he successfully escaped from the Championnat National at the first attempt, securing the title with a 2–0 victory over Sporting Toulon Var on 13 May 2006. Niort found the following two seasons difficult in Ligue 2, finishing 16th in the 2006–07 season and then suffering relegation in 2007–08 after conceding an injury time goal to Boulogne.
To regional football and back again.
Denis Troch was hired as the club's new manager in August 2008, and despite hopes of a swift return to Ligue 2, the team performed poorly throughout the 2008–09 campaign. The side failed to win a league match during the first three months of the season, and that form continued into 2009. They went into their final match of the season, away at Pacy Vallée-d'Eure, requiring three points to avoid successive relegations. However, the side could only procure a 0–0 draw and were relegated to the Championnat de France amateur for the first time since 1970. The relegation saw the end of Chamois Niortais's era as a professional club, as they were forced to become a semi-professional outfit due to the DNCG rules. In June 2009, Pascal Gastien was appointed as manager for his third spell in charge of the club, handed the task of achieving promotion back to the Championnat National at the first attempt. The club won the CFA Group C that season, and was subsequently promoted back to the National division for the following campaign. Niort secured their third-tier status with an 11th-place finish in the 2010–11 season. The following season, the team finished as runners-up in the Championnat National behind Nîmes to return to Ligue 2 for the 2012–13 campaign and regain their professional status.
On 14 May 2023, Niort were relegated to the Championnat National after finishing bottom of Ligue 2.
Colours and badge.
The commemorative kit worn in the 2007–08 season
The badge of Chamois Niortais features a chamois goat standing on a football, and the background of the crest is royal blue, which has featured in the club's home colours since its founding. When the club was founded in 1925, Chamois Niortais adopted a white strip. Since then, however, the club has usually played in a home strip of royal blue jersey, shorts and socks. In the 2007–08 season the team played in a gold and black kit for the first time, to commemorate 20 years since the club competed in Division 1.
For the following season, the home kit reverted to the usual all-blue strip and the jersey currently has a white sash across it. The away kit for the current season is the reverse of the home strip, and consists of a white jersey with blue sash, white shorts and white socks. For the 2009–10 season, the club's kits are produced by Italian sportswear company, Erreà, and the main shirt sponsor is Cheminées Poujoulat.
Stadium.
When Chamois Niortais were founded, the club had no fixed home ground and played friendly matches at various venues in and around Niort. In 1926, when the team joined the Ligue du Charentes, the club adopted the small Stade de Genève as their first home. They continued to play at the Stade de Genève for the majority of the following 50 years until, in the early 1970s, it was announced that the side would move into a new stadium. On 3 August 1974, the Stade Venise Verte was opened, with the inaugural game being an exhibition match between Chamois Niortais and Dynamo Kyiv. Some time later, the stadium was renamed the Stade René Gaillard in honour of René Gaillard, the former mayor of Niort.
At present, the stadium has four stands: the Tribune d'Honneur, the Tribune Pasages, the Tribune Populaire Nord, and the Tribune Populaire Sud. The four stands currently have a combined capacity of 10,898, with 1,324 of these being standing places. The stadium is typical of many continental European grounds, with an athletics track between the pitch and the stands. Next to the stadium there is a small annexed ground where the club's reserve and youth teams play their matches. The first televised match at the ground took place on 18 August 1987, when Saint-Étienne were beaten 2–1. The record attendance at the stadium was set on 24 October 1987, when 16,715 people saw Chamois Niortais defeat Marseille by two goals to one in a Division 1 encounter.
Supporters.
Chamois Niortais have always had a relatively small fan base, with very few fans from outside of the area around Niort. The club has one main supporters' organisation, named "Unicamox 79". The name is taken from "uni", the French for united, "camox", the Latin word meaning chamois. The 79 symbolises the department number of Deux-Sèvres. The organisation has no history of violence or extremism, and works closely with the football club to try to improve the atmosphere at home matches.
To date, the highest ever average attendance in a season was 10,142 during the club's Division 1 campaign of 1987–88. Since then, the average attendance has usually been under 5,000 spectators. In the 2008–09 season, the average was as low as 2,348 when the club was playing in the Championnat National.
 "As of 19 October 2023"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Other teams.
The club also fields a reserve team, which competes in the Championnat National 3, and has youth teams ranging from under-7 to under-15.
Managers.
Since the appointment of the first Chamois Niortais manager, the Swiss coach Franchina, there have been 31 different first-team managers. Three of the coaches, Kazimir Hnatow, Robert Charrier and Pascal Gastien, have had more than one spell in charge of the club. The current manager is Pascal Gastien, who was given the job in 2009 after Denis Troch was sacked following the side's relegation from the Championnat National. Gastien, a former Chamois Niortais player, is currently in his third spell as manager. To date, the only manager to have coached the club in the top division of French football is Patrick Parizon, during the 1987–88 season. The club's longest-serving manager was Ferdinand Faczinek, who had a five-year tenure between 1943 and 1948.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5649839" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5649839" title="Angers SCO">
Angers SCO

French professional football club
Football club
Angers Sporting Club de l'Ouest, commonly referred to as Angers SCO or simply Angers (), is a French professional football club based in Angers in Pays de la Loire in western France. The club was founded in 1919 and plays in Ligue 2, the second division of Football in France. It plays its home matches at the Stade Raymond Kopa. The club has played 23 seasons in the French top flight.
History.
The team was founded in 1919, the same year the FFF was founded.
During the team's history, it has bounced between the top two tiers on multiple occasions. However, it did spend time in the third tier on several occasions; the 2006–07 season was its last season in the third tier.
The first season that Angers debuted in the French second division was in 1945. During this season, Angers SCO was placed in the North group; at that time, the second division was split into two groups, the North and South. Angers finished third, being seven points short of Stade Français, which was promoted to the first division. In the 2014–15 Ligue 2 season, the team achieved promotion after a long time being in the lower division. During the 2015–16 Ligue 1 season, SCO placed ninth in the final standings. In its opening league match against Montpellier, Angers won the match 2–0.
On 28 May 2017 Angers played in the 2017 Coupe de France final against Paris Saint-Germain. Angers lost the match 1–0 courtesy of 91st minute own goal. At the end of the 2017–18 Ligue 1 season, Angers finished 14th on the table and Cameroon striker Karl Toko Ekambi finished with an impressive 17 goals in the competition. In the 2018–19 Ligue 1 season, Angers finished in a respectable 13th position on the table.
On 8 June 2020, Angers broke their own transfer fee record by signing Paul Bernardoni from Bordeaux, in a deal worth 8 million euros. On 30 April 2021 Angers, along with Paris FC, were handed a transfer ban by FIFA for violation of regulations regarding relay transfers in August 2020. The ban was effective for the summer 2021 transfer window. On 27 April 2023, Angers received a two-window transfer ban from FIFA due to a dispute with Tunisian club ES Tunis over the transfer of Ilyes Chetti. Angers communicated their intent to appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). In the 2022–23 Ligue 1 season, Angers suffered relegation with five matches to spare, returning to the second tier after eight years in the top flight.
 "As of 30 January 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Angers in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1919. To appear in the section below, a player must have either played in at least 80 official matches for the club or represented his country's national team either while playing for Angers or after departing the club.
"For a complete list of Angers SCO players, see "
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
Sponsors.
Some official sponsors of Angers SCO football club:
Open energie.
The Paris-based energy company was announced as an Official Partner of the club in May 2021 on a three-year deal. Since the start of the 2021–22 season, Open Energie serves as the back-of-shirt sponsor for Angers' matchday shirts, right below the kit number.
Atoll.
Atoll is a shopping mall located in Beaucouzé, near the commune of Angers. It also serves as an Official Partner to Angers SCO. Since November 2020, Atoll houses an official club store on a permanent basis.
Système U.
The Rungis-headquartered French retailers' cooperative is a long-time sponsor of the club. Currently, it serves as one of their Official partners, with its logo appearing on the front of Angers' matchday shorts.
In May 2021, a "U" convenience store was opened in the "Les Hauts de Saint-Aubin" district of Angers.
Kappa.
The Turin-headquartered Italian sportswear brand has been the technical partner of the club since 2013, supplying them with matchday kits, training and non-playing staff's uniforms and off-pitch lifestyle ranges.
In April 2019, the two parties renewed their partnership in a four-year agreement.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5649883" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5649883" title="Tours FC">
Tours FC

Association football club in France
Football club
Tours Football Club, commonly referred to as simply Tours (), is a French association football club based in Tours, the capital city of the Indre-et-Loire department. The club was formed in 1919 and currently play at the fifth level of French football. Tours plays its home matches at the Stade de la Vallée du Cher located within the city.
History.
Tours Football Club was founded in 1919 as under the name "AS Docks-du-Centre". After two years of playing under the moniker, the club changed its name to "AS du Centre". The club spent 30 years under the name as French football entered professionalism in the 1930s. In 1951, the club changed its name again to the current Tours FC. Under the Tours emblem, the club achieved success in its infancy reaching the Round of 64 in the Coupe de France thanks to player-coach Alfred Aston that same year.
Tours was promoted to the first division in 1980. Prior to the start of the season, the club signed prolific striker Delio Onnis from Monaco. Onnis improved the club's attack significantly over the next three years and departing the club in 1983 after Tours suffered relegation. During Onnis' stint between 1980 and 1983, Tours twice reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France in 1982 and 1983. The club was eliminated on both occasions by Paris Saint-Germain. In 1984, Tours quickly returned to the first division after winning Division 2 title. However, after one season, the club returned to the lower league. Tours have yet to manage a return to Ligue 1.
During the club's current absence from Ligue 1, Tours fell to the Championnat National, the third division of French football, after finishing dead last in the 2006–07 season. During the season, Albert Falette, the club manager for eight years was removed from his position. At the end of the season, the club released or sold almost all its players, including captain David Fleurival. The club only kept long-time goalkeeper Armand Raimbault and young prospect Rudy Wendling. The long-term outlook strategy paid off with the club finishing second in the 2007–08 National season, thus returning to Ligue 2, where the club remained for ten years until relegated to Championnat National following a last place finish in the 2017-2018 campaign.
The club were relegated again at the end of the 2018–19 Championnat National season, and were further relegated administratively by the "DNCG", confirmed by appeal on 11 July 2019, forcing them to play at the fifth level Championnat National 3 in the 2019–20 season.
In April 2020, after the truncation of the season due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Tours expected to be promoted back to Championnat National 2, due to being placed top of their group at the time the season was stopped. However, on 15 June 2020, The DNCG committee of the FFF denied their promotion. The decision was ratified by the appeal committee on 10 July 2020.
In March 2021, after a season voided by COVID-19, the club announced the opening of a "Société coopérative d’intérêt collectif (SCIC)" (cooperative shareholding society) with the hope of involving more of the community in the governance of the club. In July 2021, the DNCG committee of the FFF relegated the club to the sixth tier for financial reasons. The result was confirmed on appeal later in the month. They finished top of their division at the end of the 2021–22 season, but the league ruled they were to be denied promotion for financial reasons. The decision was overturned on appeal, and Tours climbed back to National 3.
Colours and logos.
Tours' crest is inspired by the city's coats of arms with three towers and a Fleur-de-lis. It bears the club's motto "Turonorum civitas libera", which means in Latin "Free city of Turones". Turones is the Celtic tribe, which gave its name to Tours. The motto was found engraved on a rock, which is now in the undergrounds of the Beaux Arts Museum located in the city. The salamander is a reference to King François I.
Stadium.
Tours has been playing at the Stade de la Vallée du Cher since 1978. In 1979, the stadium's capacity was 22,000, but now only incorporates on 13,500. The stadium was built thanks to former mayor Jean Royer, as he wanted a decent venue for the club. Before the construction of the Vallée du Cher, Tours played its home matches at the Stade de Grammont.
Supporters.
In France, Tours is not a town fond of football because of the lack of football tradition. Moreover, supporters were disappointed of the club's poor results in the past. However, the accession to Ligue 2 in 2006 where they remained for 10 seasons created some interest in the city and audiences in the stadium are gradually increasing. There are currently three groups of supporters:
 "As of 15 March 2021"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
 "As of 18 March 2019"
Reserve team.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable former players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Tours in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1919. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Tours FC players, see ."
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5649971" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5649971" title="FC Rouen">
FC Rouen

Football club
Football Club de Rouen 1899 (; commonly referred to as simply FC Rouen) is a French association football club based in Rouen, Normandy. The club was formed in 1899 and currently plays in Championnat National, the third level of French football. Rouen played its home matches at the Stade Robert Diochon; named after Robert Diochon, a historic player who was influential during the club's infancy. Rouen is known as "Les Diables Rouges" ("The Red Devils") and have been since 1903.
Rouen's football division was founded in 1899, but the club itself was founded in 1896 as a rugby club. The club achieved professional status in 1933 and have spent 19 seasons in the first division of French football and 36 in the second division. Rouen's highest honour to date was winning the second division in 1936. In 1940 and 1945, the club won the league championship of France, however, due to the league being run during World War II and not under French Football Federation authority, the titles are unofficial. Rouen have also reached European level, competing in the 1969–70 edition of the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup, where the team was defeated by the eventual champions Arsenal 1–0 on aggregate in the third round.
In addition to Robert Diochon, Rouen have produced a host of players who contributed to the France national team during the team's early years. Edmond Delfour made 41 appearances with the national team from 1929–1938 and participated in three FIFA World Cups 1930, 1934 and 1938. He is one of five players to have appeared in all three of the pre-war World Cups. Delfour later went on to manage Rouen from 1940–1945 during the unofficial wartime championships. Jean Nicolas spent his entire career with Rouen and appeared in 25 matches, scoring 21 goals with the national team from 1933–1938. In the present day, Nicolas' goal output with the team ranks for tenth all-time and his average places him in a tie for third.
History.
Football Club de Rouen 1899 was founded under the name Football Club de Rouen in 1896 by an English merchant known by the surname "Willing". The club was initially formed as a rugby club. Rouen spent three seasons primarily playing the sport of rugby before association football was introduced to the club in 1899. On 11 July 1899, the club officially announced the introduction of a football section. The section, primarily influenced by player Robert Diochon was, upon its creation, inserted into the regional league, "Normandie Championnat", by the USFSA. In 1903, the club acquired the nickname "Les Diables Rouges" ("The Red Devils"). In 1910, Diochon was installed as president of the club. Under the reign of Diochon, Rouen won the "Normandie Championnat" in five straight seasons from 1909–1914. After World War I and the dissolving of the USFSA, Rouen began playing in the "Normandie Division d'Honneur". From 1919–1933, the club won the league eight times and were led by mercurial striker Jean Nicolas. In 1925, Rouen reached the Coupe de France final. In the final, the club faced CASG Paris and were defeated 3–2 in the replay of the final. The first leg had ended in a 1–1 draw, which caused the replay.
In July 1930, the National Council of the French Football Federation voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. Rouen were among several clubs to adopt the new statute and, subsequently, became professional. The club was inserted into the second division and, as a result, became founding members of Division 2. In the league's inaugural season, Rouen finished 3rd. In the league's second season, the club finished as champions, thus earning promotion to Division 1. In Rouen's debut season in Division 1, the club surprisingly finished in 4th place. The club also reached the semi-finals of that year's Coupe de France. Rouen remained in Division 1 until the onset of World War II stopped the competition. After the war, professional football returned and Rouen were back in Division 1. The club spent only two seasons in the league before falling to Division 2 after finishing dead last in the 1946–47 season. Rouen spent the next 13 seasons playing in the second division. In 1953, Diochon died and the presidency was handed over to Auguste Duchêne. Under Duchêne, Rouen returned to Division 1 in 1960 and finished in 4th place in the club's first season back. Rouen remained consistent in the table for the next two seasons before falling down to the bottom half of the table in 1963. After finishing in the bottom half for five straight seasons, Rouen were forced into relegation by the French Football Federation after the club gave up its professional status due to financial and administrative issues.
Aside from a three-year stint in Division 1 from 1982–1985, Rouen have not maintain a consistent place in the first division since giving up its professional status. From 1970–1994, the club spent most of its life playing in Division 2. In 1995, the club filed for bankruptcy and subsequently changed its name to "Grand FC Rouen". As a result of its bankruptcy filing, the club was administratively relegated to the Championnat National, the third level of football. In 1997, Rouen were relegated to the Championnat de France amateur and, in the next season, were playing in the fifth division. In 1999, Rouen, as an amateur club, reached the quarter-finals of the Coupe de France.
In July 2000, the club's new incoming president René Bertin changed the club's name to its current form. The club underwent a rebirth and, after three seasons, were back playing in the National division. In the 2002–03 season, Rouen finished 3rd in National and, as a result, earned promotion back to Division 2, now called Ligue 2. The club's return as a professional outfit was short as Rouen spent a disastrous season in the league, ultimately finishing in dead last. An ensuing relegation from National occurred in the following season and Rouen were back in the fourth division. In 2008, the club endured serious financial issues, which led to the club being relegated to the Championnat de France amateur 2 by the DNCG. However, after successfully appealing to the organisation, Rouen were inserted back into the fourth division. The club, subsequently, finished first in its group and were promoted back to National.
In the 2012–13 season, Rouen placed 5th in Championnat National, but they were relegated to the sixth division, "Division d'Honneur", due to severe financial trouble of their management company.
In April 2015, US Quevilly joined with FC Rouen to form US Quevilly-Rouen Métropole, taking the place of US Quevilly in the Championnat de France Amateur for the 2015–16 season. This was not a straight merger, as FC Rouen continued to exist as separate entity with its own teams, whilst the new joint entity incorporated the colours and crest of FC Rouen into its kits and crest.
In 2017, FC Rouen were promoted from the Division d'Honneur Normandy to play in Championnat National 3. In the 2017–18 season, Rouen ensured their survival in National 3 on the final day. In June 2018, FC Rouen ended their arrangement with US Quevilly-Rouen Métropole. The following season, in 2019, they won promotion to Championnat National 2. In the 2022–23 season, Rouen gained promotion to the Championnat National.
On 21 January 2024, FC Rouen defeated defending Coupe de France champions Toulouse 12-11 on penalties after the match finished 3-3 after extra-time to book their place in the round of 16 against AS Monaco. After a 1-1 game, they similarly defeated Monaco on penalties, earning a spot in the quarterfinals for the first time in 25 years.
 "As of 19 January 2024"
Players.
Squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Rouen in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1899. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 80 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Rouen players, see "
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="5697687" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5697687" title="Thonon Evian Grand Genève FC">
Thonon Evian Grand Genève FC

Association football club in France
Football club
Thonon Evian Grand Genève Football Club, formerly Evian Thonon Gaillard FC (), commonly referred to as Thonon Evian or just Evian, is a French association football club based in Thonon-les-Bains that was founded on 1 July 2007. It competes in the Championnat National 2, the fourth tier of the French football league system.
Evian's predecessor were known as "FC Gaillard" and existed from 1924 to 2003. Gaillard's only notable success was winning the Division d'Honneur of the Rhône-Alpes region in 1999. Evian proved more successful, ascending to the professional divisions after just three seasons. The club won the Championnat de France Amateur in 2008, the Championnat National in 2010, and finally the Ligue 2 in 2011.
Evian formerly played its home matches at the Stade Joseph-Moynat in Thonon-les-Bains but moved to the Parc des Sports in nearby Annecy for the 2010–11 season as the Joseph-Moynat did not meet the standards of the Ligue de Football Professionnel. The move was a temporary measure while the club contemplated building a new facility or renovating the Stade Joseph-Moynat. Prior to moving to Annecy, Evian sought to play at the Stade de Genève over the Swiss border in nearby Geneva. Until the 2013–14 season, the club's main sponsor was Groupe Danone, owner of the Evian brand of mineral water. Danone's CEO Franck Riboud was honorary president of the club.
At the end of the 2015–16 season, the club was relegated from Ligue 2, and further demoted by the DNCG to the Championnat de France Amateur, the fourth level of football in France. The club then entered receivership meaning that, even if it had survived, it would have suffered a further administrative relegation at the end of the 2016–17 season. The club withdrew from the competition on 9 August. The club reformed in the regional leagues, and won back-to-back promotions in 2019 and 2020 to gain a place in Championnat National 3 for the 2020–21 season. In May 2021, it was announced that the club had become a member of the STRIVE football group, with US team FC Miami City and Belgian team Royal FC Mandel United.
History.
Football in Gaillard.
In 2003 Football Croix-de-Savoie 74 was formed as a result of a merger between FC Gaillard and FC Ville-la-Grand. Gaillard was founded in 1924 and spent most of its life playing in the Ligue Rhône-Alpes, while Ville-la-Grand was founded in 1928. The new club finished 3rd in the Championnat de France amateur (CFA) Groupe B section for the 2003–04 season. Normally, only the top club in each of the four amateur groups are promoted to the Championnat National; however, both the 1st and 2nd placed clubs in the group were reserve sides of professional teams, namely Lyon and Metz. As such, Croix-de-Savoie was promoted. The club's first season in National saw them narrowly avoid relegation, finishing 14th out of 20, two points above relegated 17th place Besançon. The 2005–06 season was less successful; Croix-de-Savoie finished 18th with 41 points, one point behind SO Châtellerault, thus falling back to the fourth division. Croix-de-Savoie's average attendance also dropped from 933 to 716.
The foundation.
In 2007, a merger between Croix-de-Savoie 74 and Olympique Thonon Chablais created Olympique Croix-de-Savoie 74. Whilst the former club had been heavily associated with the commune of Gaillard, the new club moved to the nearby commune of Thonon-les-Bains because the stadium in Gaillard was, in August 2005, deemed unfit for use in the National division. The decision resulted in club being forced to move to Stade Joseph-Moynat in Thonon, a facility with 2,700 seats and a total capacity of 6,000. The club returned to the Championnat National as the CFA Group B winners (with a record 108 points) for the 2008–09 season. In the summer of 2009, the president of the Groupe Danone, Franck Riboud, was made honorary president of the football club. Riboud yet again changed the name of the team to "Evian Thonon Gaillard Football Club". He also put money into the team to improve the youth system of the club and harboured aspirations of the side achieving promotion to Ligue 2. On 16 April 2010, the club completed the feat in Riboud's first season presiding over the club achieving promotion to Ligue 2, for the first time, following its 1–0 victory over Amiens.
After earning promotion to Ligue 2 for the 2010–11 season, Evian was rumoured to be pursuing a move to play its home matches at the Stade de la Praille in Geneva, Switzerland after it was determined that the club's current facility, the Stade Joseph-Moynat, did not meet the Ligue de Football Professionnel's (LFP) standards. Thonon-les-Bains, the commune where the club situates itself, is a few kilometres from the Swiss border and is only , a 45-minute car drive, from the city of Geneva. It was reported that the club's president, Patrick Trotignon, had been advocating the move since the beginning of the 2009–10 Championnat National season just in case the club achieved promotion to the second division. The vice-president of Swiss club Servette FC, the regular occupant of the stadium, questioned the move citing possible schedule conflicts, as well as the health of the pitch if both clubs were to use the stadium on a weekly basis. However, Benoît Genecand, president of Fondation du Stade de Genève (FSG), which owned and operated the facility, disputed the claims of the Servette official. Servette responded immediately to Genecand's comments via a press release posted on the club's official website. Evian petitioned to the State Council of Geneva and obtained approval from the LFP for the move in early May. On 20 May 2010, Evian received a favourable ruling from the French Football Federation (FFF) with the Federal Council voting in favour of the move. According to the federation, the move now had to be agreed upon by a UEFA executive committee. On 8 June, UEFA officially denied Evian's request to play at the Stade de la Praille meaning the club would play its home matches at the Parc des Sports in nearby Annecy.
On 9 January 2011, Evian recorded an upset victory over the defending French champions Olympique de Marseille in the Coupe de France, defeating the Ligue 1 club 3–1 in the Round of 64. Strong form throughout the season saw Evian secure a second successive promotion as champions of Ligue 2.
In their first season in Ligue 1, "Les Roses" finished in a respectable ninth place, one place above French giants Marseille. In the following season, the club finished in sixteenth position, avoiding relegation by just two points. Evian also reached the Coupe de France final for the first time in the club's history, where they were beaten 3–2 by Bordeaux, falling victim to a last-minute winner by Cheick Diabaté.
Relegation and dissolution.
At the end of the 2015–16 Ligue 2 season, the club finished in the relegation places. The DNCG imposed an additional relegation for the subsequent season, which would place Evian in the fourth tier of the French football pyramid, the Championnat de France Amateur (CFA). On 2 August 2016 the club was placed in receivership, given a probationary period of two months to save itself, and assessed a further administrative relegation at the end of the 2016–17 season.
On 9 August, the French Football Federation confirmed Evian's decision to cease operation in the CFA and it collapsed and folded.
Reformation, merger, rise.
On 7 December 2016, Evian was renamed Thonon Evian Savoie Football Club.
In 2018, Thonon Evian Savoie FC and Union Sportive Evian Lugrin FC merged to form Thonon Evian FC.
In 2019, the new club won promotion from the Régional 2 to the Régional 1 of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes league. This was followed in 2020 by promotion to Championnat National 3, and promotion to the Championnat National 2 in 2022.
Players.
First team squad.
"As of 8 July 2022."
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="6044154" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6044154" title="US Boulogne">
US Boulogne

Football club
Union Sportive de Boulogne-sur-Mer Côte d'Opale (commonly referred to as US Boulogne, USBCO or frequently, simply Boulogne) is a French association football club based in the commune of Boulogne-sur-Mer. The club was founded in 1898 and currently plays in Championnat National 2, the fourth level of French football, having been relegated from the Championnat National at the end of the 2021–22 season.
The club was formed in 1898 and its achievements are comparatively minor, with their biggest feat to date consisting of reaching the semi-finals during the 1936–37 edition of the Coupe de France, and one Ligue 1 season in 2009–10. Boulogne play their home matches at the Stade de la Libération, which seats 15,004 having previously seated only 7,000 prior to its renovation in 2007.
History.
Early years.
US Boulogne were originally founded in December 1898 by a group of young local athletes. While they mainly focused originally on athletic events, they created a football team to provide themselves with sporting competition in the winter months, and made a decent job in their first few years as a football club. Boulogne won the Maritime Championship three years running between 1904 and 1906. They next won the Championship in 1909 and their final victory of this division was in 1922. In 1924, Boulogne moved to the Northern Championship and fared well. The team also did well in the Coupe de France – reaching the quarter-finals in 1929 and the last 16 three times.
In 1926, Boulogne won the Northern League and only six years later, they decided to become a professional club. In 1935, under chairman Marcel Lacroix, the team joined the professional leagues. However, they played averagely in Division Two but there were a few bright sparks in the team. The Coupe de France 1937 competition saw Boulogne reach the semi-finals, but they were convincingly beaten by FC Sochaux 6–0. After the war, Boulogne, reverted to amateur status – and only decided to become a professional team again in 1957, when they were re-elected into Division Two. They stayed comfortably in Division Two for 22 years but then plummeted through the divisions – suffering consecutive relegations. The Coupe de France competition only provided little respite, as the team made the last 16 three times.
Robert Senechal arrived in 1983 and stabilised the club in Division Four. They missed out on promotion by a narrow margin in 1984 – but were finally promoted in 1991. However, it was short-lived and they were relegated the following season. In June 1994, it was announced that Boulogne were in serious debt – owing ₣3 million.
Muselet takeover and rise to Ligue 1.
Mayor of Boulougne and billionaire Jean Muselet intervened to save the club and appointed Jacques Wattez as chairman. Under the leadership of Wattez, the club adopted a new official name – Union Sportive Boulogne Côte d'Opale – in July 1994. as a new company, the debts of the club were wiped and Boulogne – although still struggling in Division Four – reached the last sixteen of the Coupe de France again in 1997–98. They earned a home tie against Ligue 1 side Olympique de Marseille, losing 1–0. In the following edition of the cup, they reached the last 32 before losing 2–1 at home to Ligue 1 neighbours Lille OSC. On 17 March 1999, the club marked their centenary by hosting Liverpool – managed by Gérard Houllier of nearby Thérouanne – in a friendly and winning 2–1.
In 2004, Boulogne hired Philippe Montanier in his first job in senior management. He won promotion to the Championnat National in his first season, and to Ligue 2 with a 2–1 victory over SC Toulon on 11 May 2007. Boulogne stayed up on the last day of the 2007–08 Ligue 2 season with a last-second win over Chamois Niortais F.C., who needed a draw to avoid the drop themselves.
The 2008–09 season saw Boulogne win promotion on the final day of the season after beating SC Amiens 4–0, replacing RC Strasbourg in the final promotion place by a single point; striker Grégory Thil finished top scorer with 18 goals. Montanier left for Valenciennes FC and was replaced by Laurent Guyot, former academy director at FC Nantes. They stayed just one season, being relegated in 19th place with 31 points; the first of their seven wins was in the second game on 16 August 2009, 2–1 at home to Grenoble Foot 38. In the same season, the team reached the quarter-finals of the 2009–10 Coupe de France, losing 3–1 away to fourth-tier US Quevilly.
Decline.
Boulogne were relegated at the end of the 2011–12 Ligue 2 season, ending their five-year spell in the professional leagues. The team reached the quarter-finals of the 2014–15 Coupe de France, losing on penalties to AS Saint-Étienne after a 1–1 home draw.
In March 2020, Boulogne were third in Championnat National when the season was prematurely ended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They were denied an opportunity for promotion when the FFF executive committee announced that the usual playoff between 18th in Ligue 2 and 3rd in Championnat National would not go ahead. The team finished bottom of the 2021–22 Championnat National table, and were relegated to Championnat National 2 after 17 years in the top three divisions. The team nearly suffered a second consecutive relegation in the 2022–23 Championnat National 2, surviving in 9th place after an improved second half of the season.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="6618038" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6618038" title="SC Toulon">
SC Toulon

French football club
Football club
Sporting Club Toulon is a football club from Toulon, France, that plays in the Championnat National 2, the fourth tier of the French football league system. The club was founded in 1944 and played under that name until the 1999–2000 season when they were administratively reformed as Sporting Toulon Var. In 2016, Sporting Toulon Var merged with SC Toulon-Le Las to become Sporting Club Toulon once again.
History.
Sporting Club Toulon was founded in 1944 after a merge between Sporting Club du Temple and Jeunesse Sportive Toulonnaise during the Vichy France regime.
Genesis.
After World War II it joined the French second division and left for only one season in 1946–1947. After eleven years in the second division, the club reached the highest division in France in 1959, after finishing third in the second division, but was relegated the year after.
Toulon has never won the French Cup, but has reached the semi-final on two occasions: in 1963 and 1984. Semi-finalists in 1963, Toulon was eliminated by Olympique Lyonnais. The following year, they finished fourth and were promoted again to the first division, without success.
Progression.
Relegated to the French 3rd division during 1980–1981 season, Toulon was growing stronger in the 1980s. Thanks to the effectiveness of Christian Dalger as a forward, the talent of the leader Alain Bénédet or the experience of Rolland Courbis in defence, Toulon was again promoted to the first division in 1983, finishing first in Group B, before Stade de Reims, thanks to a victory away to Grenoble (1–5).
Division 1 and decadence.
During the 1983–1984 season, Toulon stayed in Division 1 thanks to the 21 goals of Delio Onnis, top scorer in the league that season. The club again reached the semi-finals of the Coupe de France but were defeated by AS Monaco (1–4, 2–1).
The following season saw Toulon shining and beating Paris Saint-Germain 5–1. Still third after 31 matches played, they were then defeated three times in a row – including another defeat against AS Monaco at home, 1–0, in front of 18,000 spectators at Stade Mayol, which remains the best performance for the club until now. This demoted them to 5th place, but still put them in contention for qualification to European competition, going into the last game of the season. But a last defeat at home against FC Nantes Atlantique meant the club finished in 6th position, outside the European places.
In 1988, the Toulon team including Bernard Casoni, Bernard Pardo and David Ginola, with former player Rolland Courbis as coach, finished 5th in the league but failed to qualify for a European competition due to a weak UEFA coefficient at this time.
After several years of uncertainty, the club was relegated in 1993 to the Championnat National – the third level of French football – due to financial problems. The 1995–1996 season saw Toulon winning the title in National and promotion to Ligue 2. During the 16th final of the French Cup, they eliminated Girondins de Bordeaux where Zinedine Zidane was playing (3–2 et) before being beaten on penalties by Montpellier HSC in the next round. Improvements lasted only two years and in 1998, Sporting Club Toulon were relegated back to the Championnat National due to poor results, then administratively in CFA2 (5th level) and finally did not finish the championship because of liquidation.
Back to the amateur level.
After financial difficulties which led the club to be expelled from the Championship in the 1998–1999 season and to turn amateur, the club was reborn under the name "Sporting Toulon Var", gaining three promotions in four seasons to reach the third division. Candidate to access the 2nd division in 2006–2007, they have been relegated in 2007 to the French 4th division (CFA). In 2011, DNCG (Direction Nationale de Controle de Gestion) excluded the club from all national competitions and the club will start again in Division d'Honneur (6th division) in 2011–2012. A new manager Mohamed Sadani was appointed at the beginning of the 2013–14 season, and after several years struggling in Division d'Honneur, the club won the championship and finally gained promotion to CFA 2, 5th national level.
Merger and return to old name.
In February 2016, the club announced a merger with SC Toulon-Le Las, of the CFA. The new club would take the historic name Sporting Club Toulon and play in CFA, with the reserves in CFA2. In 2019 the club won promotion from National 2 as champion of their group. They were relegated the following year after being placed bottom of the league when the 2019–20 Championnat National season was ended prematurely due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 "As of 22 December 2020"
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="704478" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=704478" title="OGC Nice">
OGC Nice

Football club in Nice, France
Football club
Olympique Gymnaste Club de Nice (), commonly referred to as OGC Nice or simply Nice, is a French professional football club based in Nice. The club was founded in 1904 and currently plays in Ligue 1, the top tier of French football. Nice plays its home matches at the Allianz Riviera.
Nice was founded under the name "Gymnaste Club de Nice" and is one of the founding members of the first division of French football. The club has won Ligue 1 four times, the Trophee des Champions one time and the Coupe de France three times. It achieved most of its honours in the 1950s with the club being managed by coaches such as Numa Andoire, Englishman William Berry, and Jean Luciano. The club's last honour was winning the Coupe de France in 1997 after defeating Guingamp 4–3 on penalties in the final. Nice's colours are red and black.
During the club's successful run in the 1950s, Nice were among the first French clubs to successfully integrate internationals players into the fold. Notable players include Héctor De Bourgoing, Pancho Gonzales, Victor Nurenberg, and Joaquín Valle, the latter being the club's all-time leading goalscorer and arguably greatest player.
History.
Gymnaste Club 'Azur was founded in the residential district of Les Baumettes on 9 July 1904 under the name Gymnaste Club. The club was founded by Marquis de Massingy d'Auzac, who served as president of the "Fédération Sportive des Alpes-Maritimes (Alpes-Maritimes Sporting Federation"). Akin to its name, the club primarily focused on the sports of gymnastics and athletics. On 6 July 1908, in an effort to remain affiliated with the FSAM and also join the amateur federation USFSA, the head of French football at the time, "Gymnaste Club de Nice" split into two sections with the new section of the club being named "Gymnastes Amateurs Club de Nice". The new section spawned a football club and, after two seasons, the two clubs merged. On 20 September 1919, Nice merged with local club "Gallia Football Athlétic Club" and, subsequently, adopted the club's red and black combination. In 1920, the club was playing in the Ligue du Sud-Est, a regional league under the watch of the French Football Federation. While playing in the league, Nice developed rivalries with Cannes and Marseille. On 22 December 1924, the club changed its name to Olympique Gymnaste Club de Nice.
In July 1930, the National Council of the French Football Federation voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. Nice, along with most clubs from southern France, were among the first clubs to adopt the new statute and subsequently became professional and were founding members of the new league. In the league's inaugural season, Nice finished seventh in its group. In the following season, Nice finished 13th and were relegated from the league. The club did not play league football in the ensuing season and returned to French football in 1936 playing in Division 2. Nice spent the next three years playing in the second division. In 1939, professional football in France was abolished due to World War II. Nonetheless, Nice continued to play league football under amateur status with the club participating in the Ligue du Sud-Est in 1939 and the Ligue du Sud in the following seasons.
After World War II, Nice returned to professional status and were inserted back into the second division. The club achieved promotion back to the first division for the 1948–49 season under the leadership of the Austrian manager Anton Marek. After two seasons of finishing in the top ten, Nice, now led by manager Jean Lardi, achieved its first-ever honour by winning the league title in the 1950–51 season. Led by French internationals Marcel Domingo, Antoine Bonifaci, Abdelaziz Ben Tifour, and Jean Courteaux, as well as the Argentine duo of Pancho Gonzales and Luis Carniglia and the Swede Pär Bengtsson, Nice won the league despite finishing equal on points with Lille. Nice was declared champions due to having more wins (18) than Lille (17). In the following season, under new manager Numa Andoire, Nice won the double after winning both the league and the Coupe de France. In the league, the club defended its title by holding off both Bordeaux and Lille. In the Coupe de France final, Nice faced Bordeaux and defeated the Aquitaine club 5–3 courtesy of goals from five different players.
Nice continued its solid run in the decade by winning the Coupe de France for the second time in 1954. The club, now being led by a young and unknown Just Fontaine, faced southern rivals Marseille and earned a 2–1 victory with Victor Nuremberg and Carniglia scoring the goals. Carniglia retired from football after the season and began managing Nice. In his first season in charge, Nice won the league for a third time after being chased for the entire season by rivals Marseille and Monaco, as well as Lens and Saint-Étienne. After the campaign, Fontaine departed the club for Stade de Reims. Three seasons later, Nice won the last title of the decade in 1959. The club finished the decade (1950–1959) with four league titles and two Coupe de France trophies. Nice also appeared in European competition for the first time in the 1956–57 season, losing to Real Madrid in the quarter-finals.
In subsequent decades, Nice struggled to equal the success of the 1950s with Reims and, later Saint-Étienne eclipsing the club in the 1960s and '70s. During this time, Nice regularly competed in Division 1 with the exception of two seasons in Division 2 in 1965 and 1970. In 1973 and 1976, Nice achieved a second-place finish in the league, its best finish since winning the league in 1959. However, following the latter finish, the club finished in lower positions in the next six seasons and were relegated in the 1981–82 season after finishing 19th. Nice played three seasons in the second division before returning to the top flight in 1985. After six seasons of mid-table finishes, Nice was back in Division 2.
In 1997, Nice, now back in the first division, stunned many after winning the Coupe de France. However, the victory did not shock most French football enthusiasts mainly due to the club's competition in the run up to the final in which Nice faced only Division 2 clubs, save for first division club Bastia. In the final, Nice defeated Guingamp 5–4 on penalties to earn cup success. On a sourer note, Nice were relegated from the first division only days after winning the Coupe de France in dead last in the league. The club spent five seasons in Ligue 2 and returned to Ligue 1 for the 2001–02 season. In the lead up to the season, Nice failed to meet the financial requirements set by the DNCG and was subsequently relegated to the Championnat National, the third level of French football. However, after achieving stability, mainly due to selling a few players, Nice was allowed in Ligue 1 after successfully appealing. In the 2005–06 season, Nice made it to the final of the Coupe de la Ligue in 2006, losing to Nancy 2–1.
In 2016, a Chinese and American consortium led by Chien Lee and Alex Zheng purchased 80% of the club. In the 2016–17 Ligue 1 season, Nice finished third in the final standings and qualified for the third round of the UEFA Champions League.
On June 11, 2018, Patrick Vieira was announced as Nice manager, replacing Lucien Favre. In the 2018–19 season, Nice finished in 7th place on the table.
In July 2019, it was announced that Jim Ratcliffe acquired the French club for a reported €100 million.
After a run of poor form saw Nice sitting at 11th place in Ligue 1 and eliminated from the Europa League, manager Patrick Vieira was sacked. Vieira's assistant, Adrian Ursea, took over as caretaker. Nice would finish the 2020–21 Ligue 1 season in ninth place on the table.
On 28 June 2021, Christophe Galtier was appointed as the new head coach. On 27 June 2022, Lucien Favre returned to Nice as manager.
After a complicated first part of the season, Lucien Favre was fired. He was replaced by the coach of the reserve team Didier Digard For the following season Francesco Farioli was appointed as the next head coach.
Home stadium.
From 1927 until 2013, Nice played its home matches at the Stade Municipal du Ray, usually shortened to simply the Stade du Ray. The stadium is, however, officially known as the Stade Léo-Lagrange, named after a French politician who had a stint in politics as the assistant secretary of state for sport. The Stade du Ray has gone through many renovations, most recently being in 1997 and has a capacity of 17,415. The stadium was popular with supporters for being located in the centre of the city, but suffered from its old structure and small capacity, as the Nice metropolitan area has over one million residents.
Nice began to attempt to build a new stadium in 2002. In its first attempt, the club was heavily criticised by local politicians who questioned the usefulness and format of the stadium. Despite the critics, however, the club's proposition passed and excavation of the site in the plain of Var, at Nice-Lingostière, began in July 2006. The Tribunal administration of Nice cancelled the project for irregularities committed concerning the fixation of the price of tickets. In October 2008, the new deputy mayor of Nice, Christian Estrosi, declared that Nice would have a new stadium "no later than 2013". The new stadium was to be built at the same place as before, at Nice-Lingostière.
On 22 September 2009, French newspaper "L'Équipe" reported the Grand Stade Nice had been selected by the French Football Federation (FFF) as 1 of the 12 stadiums to be used in the country's bid to host UEFA Euro 2016. The FFF officially made its selections on 11 November 2009, and the city of Nice was selected as a site to host matches during the tournament.
The construction of the Allianz Riviera started in 2011 and was completed in September 2013.
 "As of 31 January 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable former players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Nice in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1904. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 100 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of OGC Nice players, see "
Apres Maccabi Tel aviv ( Prete Hapoel Jerusalem ) ou vas Joue Roy Revivo apres Euro 2024 ou Word Cup 2026 qui vas joue avec Israel ci Dieu veu *** 
 1. Nice ou Reims ( uber ligue 1) 
 
 2. KAA Gent( Jupiler pros ligue) 
 
 3. Blackbrurn Rovers ( Championship) 
 
 4. Atletico Madrid ou Celta Vigo ( la liga)
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="7390480" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7390480" title="Olympique Alès">
Olympique Alès

Association football club in France
Football club
Olympique Alès is a French association football club founded in 1923, based in the commune of Alès. The Cévennes club currently plays in Championnat National 3 the fifth division of the French football league system. The club in the past has played for six seasons in Ligue 1.
 "As of 4 August 2014"
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="7598203" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7598203" title="Gazélec Ajaccio">
Gazélec Ajaccio

Football club in Ajaccio, Corsica, France
Football club
Gazélec Football Club Ajaccio (), commonly referred to as GFC Ajaccio, GFCA, Gazélec Ajaccio or simply Gazélec (), is a French football club from Ajaccio, Corsica. Founded in 1910, Gazélec played one season in Ligue 1 in the 2015–16 season. As of the 2023–24 season, it competes in the Régional 2, the seventh tier of the French football league system.
History.
The club was founded in 1960 as result of the merger of two small Ajaccio clubs, Football Club Ajaccien (commonly known as FC Ajaccio), founded in 1930 and Gazélec Corse Club, founded in 1910.
Gazélec reached the semi-finals of the 2011–12 Coupe de France, while playing in the third-tier Championnat National. They hosted home games in the later rounds at the larger Stade François Coty, home of AC Ajaccio.
On 15 May 2015, Gazélec were promoted to Ligue 1 for the first time in the club's history, following a 3–2 win over Niort with two goals by John Tshibumbu. It was their second consecutive promotion and fourth in five years. The team started off the 2015–16 Ligue 1 season as one of the smallest teams to compete in the division's history. They were instantly relegated, in 19th place. In June 2019, the club were relegated to the third tier after a play-off loss to Le Mans. They were relegated again at the end of the truncated 2019–20 Championnat National season, after being in the relegation places when the season was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, they suffered administrative relegation to the fifth-tier Championnat National 3 for financial reasons.
On 20 December 2022, following the initiation of criminal proceedings against its president of two months, receivership proceedings were commenced by the commercial court of Ajaccio. On 23 January 2023 the club appeared at the commercial court again, where a decision to liquidate it was tabled, under advisement for one week. A week later, the court confirmed the decision, leading to the suspension of the two senior teams of the club from Championnat National 3 and Régional 2, and their results for the season being expunged. On 13 July 2023, the French Football Federation decided that Gazélec Ajaccio could participate in the upcoming season's Régional 2.
Rivalries.
The club had rivalries with the other two Corsican professional clubs: SC Bastia and AC Ajaccio, the latter one playing the Ajaccio Derby with Gazélec. For many years, Gazélec played in a lower division than their city rivals. The side also had a rivalry with another smaller club on the island, FC Borgo, a club formed when CA Bastia and Borgo FC merged.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="7744075" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7744075" title="Limoges FC">
Limoges FC

Football club
Limoges Football Club, founded in 1947, were a French association football team based in Limoges, France which last played in the sixth tier of the French football league system. They played at the Stade Saint-Lazare, which can hold 3,000 fans.
The club changed names twice during its existence, being Limoges Football Club at formation, Limoges Foot 87 from 1987 to 2003 and then returning to Limoges Football Club from 2003 until dissolution in 2020. As of 27 January 2020, a proposal exists to reform the club as Limoges Football from the 2020–21 season.
The club played in Division 1 from 1958 to 1961.
History.
Limoges Football Club was formed in 1947 through a merger of two rival clubs, "Red Star Athlétique de Limoges" (founded 1917) and Star Limousin Université Club (founded 1906). In 1957, after playing the majority of their first ten years at the top level of amateur football, they gained professional status, and became part of an expanded French Division 2. They finished third in the table, which gained them promotion to the top division.
The club stayed in French Division 1 for three seasons, with their highest finish being 10th in 1959–60. From relegation in 1961 until 1987, the club competed in Division 2 or Division 3. They came close to promotion back to Division 1 in both 1964 and 1965, qualifying for the playoffs on both occasions. Twice during this period they reached the quarter-final of the Coupe de France, losing after extra time to Stade de Reims in 1962–63 and to Stade Rennais over two legs in 1969–70. At the end of the 1972–73 season they were relegated to Division 3, returning to Division 2 in 1977.
In June 1987, despite a 7th-place finish in Division 2, the leaders of the club declared bankruptcy with a debt of more than five million francs. The club, reborn under the title Limoges Foot 87, were administratively relegated to French Division 4.
From 1987 to 2003, the club played at the fourth and fifth levels of French football. At the end of the 2002–03 season, the club was again forced into bankruptcy, and were administratively relegated to level 6 of the French football league system; Limoges Foot 87 was dissolved, and the reborn club took back the old title of Limoges Football Club.
The club won promotion back to Championnat de France amateur 2 immediately, as champions of the 2003–04 Division d'Honneur "Centre-Ouest" (Centre-West) group. They spent time at level five and six until 2014 when they won promotion to level 4 from Championnat de France Amateur 2, but were relegated again in 2014–15.
In 2017 the club won promotion to the new fourth level Championnat National 2, but despite finishing 12th in their group in 2017–18 they were relegated administratively back to the fifth level after being placed into administration during the season. At the end of the 2018–19 season they were relegated administratively again to the Regional league due to not being in compliance with the financial rules of the competition.
In January 2020 the club was placed into compulsory liquidation, with the senior men's teams declaring forfeit. The sporting rights of the club were assigned to a new entity, Limoges Football, by the FFF on 24 January 2020, ensuring continuation of junior and women's football at the club. The future of the senior men's teams will be defined at the end of the 2019–20 season.
Notable players.
French international players:
Madagascan international players: 
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="7787643" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7787643" title="SR Colmar">
SR Colmar

Football club in Colmar, France
Football club
Stadium Racing Colmar is a football club located in Colmar, France. They play in the Championnat National 2, the fourth tier of French football.
History.
Founded in 1919 as AS Colmar, the club is based in Colmar, Alsace, and plays its home matches at the Colmar Stadium in the city. SR Colmar has played one season in the Division 1 (Ligue 1) in 1948–49 and have spent five seasons in the Division 2 (Ligue 2). On 23 January 2010, Colmar defeated professional club Lille in the Coupe de France 10–9 on penalty kicks, giving the club one of its biggest victories to date.
The club was liquidated in November 2016, and was reformed as Stadium Racing Colmar.
Stadium.
Owned by the city of Colmar, the Colmar Stadium has been the home of SR Colmar since 2001, succeeding the Stade des Francs. The sports complex at the ground is made up of three football fields, including one of synthetic grass. The main pitch has a surface of natural grass. The stadium has a grandstand with a seating capacity of 1,300; 40 seats are accessible to the handicapped. 
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="8942947" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8942947" title="SC Fives">
SC Fives

Football club
SC Fives was a French association football club from Fives, a suburb in the east of Lille. Founded in 1901, the club merged with Olympique Lillois in 1944 to form Lille OSC.
Honours.
Championnat de France
Coupe de France
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="8942950" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8942950" title="Olympique Lillois">
Olympique Lillois

Football club
Olympique Lillois was a French association football club from the city of Lille. Founded in 1902 they merged with SC Fives in 1944 to form Lille OSC.
Honours.
Championnat de France
Trophée de France
Championnat USFSA
Championnat USFSA Nord:
Championnat DH Nord:
Coupe Peugeot:
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="9222048" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9222048" title="FC Nancy">
FC Nancy

Football club
Football club de Nancy was a French association football team playing in the city of Nancy, Meurthe-et-Moselle. The team was founded in 1901 and dissolved in 1968. They won Ligue 2 once.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="979521" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=979521" title="Olympique Lyonnais">
Olympique Lyonnais

Football club
Olympique Lyonnais (), commonly referred to as simply Lyon () or OL, is a French professional football club based in the city of Lyon in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. The men play in France's highest football division, Ligue 1. Founded in 1950, the club won its first Ligue 1 championship in 2002, starting a national record-setting streak of seven successive titles. Lyon has also won eight Trophées des Champions, five Coupes de France, and three Ligue 2 titles.
Lyon has participated in the UEFA Champions League seventeen times, and during the 2009–10 season, reached the semi-finals of the competition for the first time after three previous quarter-final appearances. They once again reached this stage in the 2019–20 season. Olympique Lyonnais plays its home matches at the 59,186-seat Parc Olympique Lyonnais, commercially known as the Groupama Stadium, in Décines-Charpieu, a suburb of Lyon. The club's home colors are white, red and blue. Lyon was a member of the G14 group of leading European football clubs and are founder members of its successor, the European Club Association.
The club's nickname, "Les Gones", means "The Kids" in Lyon's regional dialect of Franco-Provençal. They have a long-standing rivalry with nearby club Saint-Étienne, with whom they contest the Derby Rhône-Alpes. Lyon had been owned by Jean-Michel Aulas since 1987, before American businessman John Textor completed the purchase of the club in December 2022.
History.
Olympique Lyonnais was initially formed under the multisports club Lyon Olympique Universitaire, which was originally formed in 1896 as "Racing Club de Lyon". Following numerous internal disagreements regarding the cohabitation of amateurs and professionals within the club, then-manager of the club Félix Louot and his entourage contemplated forming their own club. On 3 August 1950, Louot's plan came to fruition when Olympique Lyonnais was officially founded by Dr. Albert Trillat and numerous others. The club's first manager was Oscar Heisserer and, on 26 August 1950, played its first official match defeating CA Paris-Charenton 3–0 in front of 3,000 supporters. In just the club's second year of existence, Lyon was crowned champion of the second division, securing promotion to the first division. The club maintained its first division place for the remainder of the decade, excluding a year's stint in the second division for the 1953–54 season.
Lyon achieved moderate success during the 1960s and 1970s with the likes of Fleury Di Nallo, Néstor Combin, Serge Chiesa, Bernard Lacombe and Jean Djorkaeff playing major roles. Under manager Lucien Jasseron, Lyon won its first-ever Coupe de France title defeating Bordeaux 2–0 in the 1963–64 season. The club also performed respectably in the league under Jasseron's reign until the 1965–66 season, when Lyon finished 16th, which ultimately led to Jasseron's departure. His replacement was Louis Hon, who helped Lyon win their second Coupe de France title after defeating Sochaux 3–1 in the 1966–67 season.
Lyon was managed by former Lyon legend Aimé Mignot heading into the 1970s. Under Mignot's helm, Lyon won its third Coupe de France title in 1972–73, beating Nantes 2–1.
In June 1987, Lyon was bought by Rhône businessman Jean-Michel Aulas who took control of the club aiming to turn Lyon into an established Ligue 1 side. His ambitious plan, titled "OL – Europe", was designed to develop the club at the European level and back into the first division within a period of no more than four years. The first manager under the new hierarchy was Raymond Domenech. The aspiring chairman gave Domenech "carte blanche" to recruit whoever he saw fit to help the team reach the first division. They went on to accomplish this in Domenech's first season in charge. Lyon achieved its zenith under Domenech when it qualified for the UEFA Cup. For the remainder of his tenure, however, the club underachieved. Domenech was replaced by former French international Jean Tigana, who led the team to an impressive second place in the 1994–95 season.
At the start of the new millennium, Lyon began to achieve greater success in French football. The club established itself as the premiere club in France defeating Marseille and Paris Saint-Germain and also became France's richest club. Lyon became known for developing promising talent who went on to achieve greatness not only in France, but also abroad and internationally. Notable examples include Michael Essien, Florent Malouda, Sidney Govou, Juninho, Cris, Eric Abidal, Mahamadou Diarra, Patrick Müller and Karim Benzema. Lyon won its first ever Ligue 1 championship in 2002, starting a national record-breaking streak of seven successive titles. During that run the club also won one Coupe de France title, its first Coupe de la Ligue title and a record six Trophée des Champions. The club also performed well in UEFA competitions, reaching as far as the quarter-finals on three occasions and the semi-finals in 2010 in the UEFA Champions League. Lyon's streak and consistent dominance of French football came to an end during the 2008–09 season, when it lost the title to Bordeaux.
OL has begun investment in sports outside of football. OL operates an esports team in China, and in 2019 purchased a minority stake in the local ASVEL basketball club, specifically purchasing a 25% interest in ASVEL's men's side and a 10% interest in the women's side.
More recently, OL announced in December 2019 that it would buy an 89.5% stake in the U.S. National Women's Soccer League team known at the time as Reign FC. The purchase closed in January 2020 following approval of the NWSL board. Several weeks later, OL announced the rebranding of Reign FC as OL Reign.
In the 2019–20 season, Lyon suffered a poor start to the season, and ended the season in seventh place, as the league was cancelled due to the coronavirus outbreak. Lyon also reached the final of the Coupe de la Ligue, however, they eventually lost to Paris Saint-Germain 6–5 on penalties. Ultimately, this meant that Lyon failed to qualify for European competition for the first time in 24 years. In the Champions League, Lyon were more successful, defeating Juventus in the round of 16 and Manchester City in the quarter-final to reach the semi-finals for the first time in 10 years. However, they eventually lost 3–0 in the semi-final to Bayern Munich, eliminating Lyon from the competition.
Ownership and finances.
Olympique Lyonnais was owned by Rhône businessman Jean-Michel Aulas, who acquired the club on 15 June 1987. He serves as the founder and chief operating officer of CEGID (Compagnie Européenne de Gestion par l'Informatique Décentralisée). After ridding the club of its debt, Aulas restructured the club's management and reorganised the finances and, in a span of two decades, transformed the club from a second division team into one of the richest football clubs in the world. However, Aulas has been lambasted by critics for running the club as if it were a business. During this period, the club's holding company operated on the European Stock Exchange under the name OL Groupe, initialled OLG. Aulas currently serves on the board for the European Club Association, a sports organisation representing football clubs in Europe. He was also the last president of the now-defunct G-14 organisation.
In April 2008, business magazine "Forbes" ranked Lyon as the thirteenth most valuable football team in the world. The magazine valued the club at $408 million (€275.6M), excluding debt. In February 2009, Lyon were rated in the 12th spot in the Deloitte Football Money League, reportedly bringing in an annual revenue of €155.7 million for the 2007–08 season, which ranks among the world's best football clubs in terms of revenue.
In 2016, a Chinese private equity fund acquired 20% stake in Olympique Lyonnais Group for €100 million. The fund was managed by IDG Capital Partners. 
In December 2022, American businessman John Textor completed the purchase of the club, owning 77.49% of the club's shares and thus becomes the new owner of the club. Under this arrangement, the club suggested that Aulas would continue to serve as president for at least three more seasons. However, on 8 May 2023, it was announced that Textor had replaced Aulas to become the chairman and CEO of OL Groupe, thus making him the new president of Olympique Lyonnais, ending Aulas' 36 years rule, during which more than 50 major titles have been won for both men's and women's teams. Jean-Michel Aulas was appointed honorary chairman, and "L'Equipe" reported that Aulas would be compensated €10 million for his exit and retain a 9% stake in the club.
On 13 July 2023, Frenchman Santiago Cucci was named to become the new interim executive president of OL Groupe, but later ressigned in November.
"As of 13 July 2023."
Stadium.
Olympique Lyonnais used to play at the Stade de Gerland since 1950, the year of the club's foundation. In 1910, the mayor of Lyon, Édouard Herriot, came up with the idea to develop and build a sports stadia with an athletics track and a velodrome in the city. In 1912, the stadium was officially mandated and local architect Tony Garnier was given the reins to designing and constructing it. Construction began in 1914 with hopes that the stadia would be completed before the International Exhibition of 1914. Due to World War I, however, construction was temporarily halted, but resumed following its conclusion in 1919. By 1920, the stadium was completely functional. In 1926, the Stade de Gerland was inaugurated by Herriot.
Olympique Lyonnais began playing at the Gerland in 1950 and remained at the stadium until 2016. The stadia originally had a cycling track, but was removed to increase the seating capacity to 50,000. In 1984, minor renovations were made to the stadium by architect Rene Gagis. This included construction of the Jean Bouin and Jean Jaurès stands. Further renovations were needed to prepare the stadium for the 1998 FIFA World Cup, as by that time FIFA had mandated that all stadiums used for international matches, including the World Cup, had to be all-seated. The north and south stands, known as the Jean Jaurès and Jean Bouin stand, respectively, were completely knocked down and rebuilt, and the athletics track that had remained, even after the cycling track had been removed, was taken out. The renovations were done by architect Albert Constantin. The new incarnation of Gerland had a maximum capacity of 40,500.
On 1 September 2008, Olympique Lyonnais president Jean-Michel Aulas announced plans to create a new 60,000-seat stadium, tentatively called "OL Land", to be built on 50 hectares of land located in Décines-Charpieu, a suburb of Lyon. The stadium includes state-of-the-art sporting facilities, two hotels, a leisure center and commercial and business offices.
On 13 October 2008, the project was agreed upon by the State, the General Council of Rhône, the Grand Lyon, SYTRAL and the municipality of Décines for construction with approximately €180 million of public money being used and between €60–80 million coming from the Urban Community of Lyon. After the announcement, however, the club's efforts to get the stadium off the ground were hindered mainly due to slow administrative procedures, political interests and various opposition groups, who viewed the stadium as financially, ecologically and socially wrong for the taxpayers and community of Décines. The official name of the stadium was provisionally to be The Stade des Lumières.
On 22 September 2009, French newspaper "L'Equipe" reported that "OL Land" had been selected by the French Football Federation (FFF) as one of the 12 stadiums to be used in the country's bidding for UEFA Euro 2016. The FFF officially made their selections on 11 November 2009 and the city of Lyon was selected as a site to host matches during the tournament.
The opening of Parc OL was on 9 January 2016. Olympique Lyonnais beat Troyes 4–1 with goals from Alexandre Lacazette, Rachid Ghezzal, Jordan Ferri and Claudio Beauvue.
Training centre.
The Centre Tola Vologe was the training centre and club headquarters of Olympique Lyonnais before the move to their new stadium in 2016. It is located in the city of Lyon, not far from the Stade de Gerland. The facility is named after Anatole Vologe, commonly called Tola Vologe, who was a Lyon sportsman and was murdered by the Gestapo during World War II. The facility is known for its high-level training and several prominent players have passed through the youth training centre. These include Karim Benzema, Hatem Ben Arfa, Sidney Govou, Alexandre Lacazette, Samuel Umtiti and Ludovic Giuly. The centre used to host training sessions for the senior team and also served as the home facility for the club's reserve, youth (both male and female), and female sides, who both played their home matches at the Plaine des Jeux de Gerland. Jean-François Vulliez is the current director of the centre.
Both the men and women teams now train within a modern complex right by the new Groupama Stadium in Décines. The youth Academy also moved to the neighbouring town of Meyzieu.
Colours and kits.
Lyon won six of their seven league titles wearing this kit.
Since the club's foundation, the primary colours have been red, blue, and white, with the latter being the most predominant of the three. During the early years of the club's existence, Olympique Lyonnais primarily played in all-white uniforms. In 1955, Lyon officials decided to add a red and blue chevron and blue shorts to the combination. In 1961, the chevron tradition was disbanded and the two strips of red and blue were shaped horizontally. After six years, the club returned to the all-white uniforms, but kept intact the red and blue stripes, but, instead of keeping them horizontally, inserted them vertically and on the left side of the shirt. Lyon began wearing the shirt during the 1970–71 season and wore the kits up until the 1975–76 season. For the 2002–03 season, chairman Jean-Michel Aulas announced that the club would return the kits. Lyon wore them, with several different modifications every year, for six of their seven consecutive titles.
In 1976, the club endured a drastic change to their kits, ditching the all-white uniforms for an all-red style, akin to English club Liverpool. The club wore the kits up until the 1989–90 season, with the 1977–78 and 1978–79 seasons being excluded due to the club adding navy blue vertical stripes to the shirt that was deemed unsuccessful. Following the 1989–90 season, the club returned to the all-white kits and, at the start of the 1995–96 season, the club returned the vertical stripes, but opted to insert them in the center of the shirt, instead of to the left. The club kept this style until the 2001–02 season. For the 2009–10 season, Lyon returned the horizontal red and blue stripes. In the Champions League, Lyon has used a variety of different colours as first choice, including red, navy blue, light blue, black, silver and fluorescent yellow.
Supporters.
Olympique Lyonnais has an active fanbase composed of many groups of supporters. One of the club's most notable supporters group is "Bad Gones" ("Bad Kids"). The "Bad Gones" were established in 1987 around the time of Jean-Michel Aulas's purchase of the team and occupy the Virage Nord area of the Stade de Gerland. During the 2007–08 season, the group celebrated its 20th anniversary. The "Bad Gones" is the biggest group of supporters in France and have a very strong reputation in Europe, due to the club's control of Ligue 1, as well as Lyon's continued appearances in the UEFA Champions League.
Another notable supporters group is the "Cosa Nostra Lyon", who occupy the Virage Sud area of the stadium. The group was created in 2007 as a result of a merger between two groups, the "Lugdunums", which had existed since 1993 and "Nucleo Ultra", which formed in 2000. The merger was created to achieve a sense of stability among supporters. The group is no longer recognised by the club, but continues to operate in a functional manner. Other support groups include the "Hex@gones", which was formed in 2000 and sit in the Virage Sud area, the "Gastrogones", who occupy the Jean Bouin stand, and the "O'Elles Club", who sit in the Jean Jaurès stand.
The club also has support groups that are based in areas outside of the city of Lyon. The "Gones 58" supporters come from the department of Nièvre in Bourgogne, while "Gones 26" origins come from the department of Drôme in nearby Valence. Three minor support groups in "Septimagones", "Loups Marchois", and "Dauphigones" comes from the commune of Hérépian, the department of Creuse, and the department of Isère, respectively.
Statistics and records.
Lyon's first competitive game was a 3–0 victory against CA Paris-Charenton on 26 August 1950. Since the club's foundation in 1950, they have played 48 seasons in France's highest football division, which totals 1,768 matches. Of the 1,768, they achieved 686 victories, drew 442 matches and lost 602 contests. Of the nine seasons the club played in Ligue 2, they contested 310 matches, winning 160 matches, drawing 84 times and losing only 56. Lyon achieved their 1,000th victory during the 2003–04 season after defeating Strasbourg.
The Moroccan-born French midfielder Serge Chiesa holds Lyon overall appearance record having played in 541 matches over the course of 14 seasons from 1969 to 1983. Following him is former goalkeeper Grégory Coupet who contested 518 matches over the course of 11 seasons from 1997 to 2008. Along with Sidney Govou, Coupet also has the distinction of being the only player in Lyon's history to win all four domestic French titles having been a part of all seven Ligue 1 titles, the club's Coupe de France triumph in 2008, the only Coupe de la Ligue win in 2001, and six of the seven Trophée des Champions titles. Govou, Coupet, and Juninho share the honour of being only Lyon players who were a part of all seven title runs.
The club's all-time leading scorer is Fleury Di Nallo, who scored 182 goals while at the club from 1960 to 1974. Di Nallo is also third behind Chiesa and Coupet in all time appearances having played in 489 matches during his 14-year stint at the club. Despite Di Nallo's impressive goalscoring record, he doesn't hold the record for most goals scored during a league season. That distinction was held by Bourg-en-Bresse-born André Guy who notched 25 goals, which he attained in the 1968–69 season. Alexandre Lacazette, however, scored his 26th goal of the 2014–15 league season in an important game away to Stade de Reims when he scored in the sixth minute.
Lyon's biggest victory is 10–0, which occurred of two occasions against Ajaccio in the 1953–54 edition of the Coupe de France and, two seasons later, against Delle in the 1955–56 edition of the competition. Lyon's biggest league victory is 8–0 and also occurred on two occasions. The first being during the 1966–67 season against Angers and the second being against Marseille during the 1997–98 season. The club's biggest victory on the European stage occurred during the 1974–75 season, where Lyon hammered Luxembourg-based club FA Red Boys Differdange 7–0.
Rivalries.
Historically, Lyon has had a healthy rivalry with Saint-Étienne, head-to-head clashes between the clubs being referred to as the "Derby Rhône-Alpes". Since the club's dominance at the start of the new millennium, however, they have established rivalries with Marseille, Bordeaux, Paris Saint-Germain and Lille. Lyon also share minor rivalries with fellow Rhône-Alpes clubs Grenoble and AS Lyon Duchère.
The Saint-Étienne rivalry began during the 1960s when Lyon established their residency in the French first division. The Arpitan rivalry stems simply from the close proximity of the clubs to each other, separated by just , as well as historical social and cultural difference between the two cities where they are based; Lyon traditionally cited as being a financially comfortable and middle class city, while Saint-Étienne is traditionally regarded as being more industrial and working-class. The derby also pits "the most recently successful French club" (Lyon) against "the formerly biggest French club" (Saint-Étienne) and is often seen as one of the high-points of the Ligue 1 season.
Lyon's rivalry with Marseille goes back to 23 September 1945, when the clubs contested their first match. The derby, often called "Choc des Olympiques" ("Clash of the Olympics") or "Olympico", is often cited as being particularly important as both clubs are of high standard in French football and the championship is regularly decided between the two. Marseille, Saint-Étienne, Lyon, and PSG are the only French clubs to have won the French first division four straight times, with Marseille doing this on two occasions.
Sponsors.
On 7 August 2009, Lyon announced that it would sign a ten-year deal with the German sportswear brand Adidas, effective at the start of the 2010–11 season with Lyon earning €5 million annually from the deal, plus possible royalty fees based on product sales.
Following the 2008–09 season, Lyon's long-term sponsorship agreement with the French multinational corporation Accor and Renault Trucks ended. On 22 July 2009, the Paris-based online bookmaker BetClic reached an agreement with Lyon to advertise on the club's kits. Due to French law prohibiting online gambling, however, Lyon could not wear its kits displaying the BetClic logo. On 12 August 2009, just before the opening league match against Le Mans, the club was relieved of its BetClic-sponsored shirts by the Ligue de Football Professionnel (LFP), which warned the club that it risked forfeiting points if the club wore them. Lyon complied and, since the Le Mans match, wore sponsorless shirts while playing on French soil. Lyon were free to wear its BetClic sponsored shirts outside France; on 25 August 2009, the club unveiled the shirts in Belgium while taking on Anderlecht in the Champions League. On 15 January 2010, Lyon secured a sponsorship agreement with Japanese video game company Sony Computer Entertainment to display the company's PlayStation logo on their shirts. The deal lasted until the end of the 2009–10 season. In 2010, the French ban on online gambling advertising was lifted and Lyon began wearing its BetClic-sponsored shirts on French soil. In August 2012, the club agreed a two-year sponsorship deal with Korean car manufacturers Hyundai that would start in 2012–13 season, replacing BetClic as the main sponsor in their shirts for Ligue 1 matches.
Minor sponsors of the club include LG, APICIL, and MDA Électroménager. During Coupe de France matches, the club wear kits sponsored by SFR, Caisse d'Épargne and Pitch as they are main sponsors of the FFF. During Coupe de la Ligue matches, Lyon wear shirts with the Speedy Triangle logo on the front of their shirt, as they are main sponsors of the LFP.
Media.
On 27 July 2005, the club launched the 24/7 network OL TV, which is completely devoted to club programming and events, along with reserve and women's team matches.
 "As of 5 June 2023"
Players.
Current squad.
"As of 2 February 2024"
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Reserve squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Former players.
"For a complete list of former Olympique Lyonnais players with a Wikipedia article, see ."
Numbers of honour.
16 – retired in 1999 in recognition of goalkeeper Luc Borrelli. Borrelli was killed in a road accident in February of that year. In 2011, the number was brought out of retirement and given to back-up goalkeeper Anthony Lopes and as since been reissued again.
17 – retired in 2003 in recognition of midfielder Marc-Vivien Foé. Foé died while playing for Cameroon in the 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup at the Stade de Gerland, Lyon. The number was brought out of retirement in 2008 to allow Cameroonian player Jean Makoun to wear it. Following Makoun's departure, the number went without use for a year. In 2011, it was given to Alexandre Lacazette and as since been reissued again.
Award winners.
The following players have won the UNFP Player of the Year while playing for Lyon:
The following players have won the UNFP Young Player of the Year while playing for Lyon:
The following player have won the UNFP Goalkeeper of the Year while playing for Lyon:
The following players have won the Bravo Award while playing for Lyon:
Coaches.
Olympique Lyonnais has had 22 permanent coaches and two caretaker coaches since the club's first appointed Oscar Heisserer as a professional coach in 1950. Heisserer also served as the first player-coach of the club, coming out of retirement to play during his final season at the club. The longest-serving coach in terms of time was Aimé Mignot, who coached Lyon for eight years from 1968 to 1976. Alain Perrin, who coached the club from 2007 to 2008, was the first Lyon coach to achieve the double.
"As of 12 January 2024"
Honours.
Lyon has won Ligue 1 seven times, which ranks sixth in French football history. Lyon has the distinction of starting a national record-breaking streak of seven successive titles beginning with the 2001–02 season. The club has also been crowned champions of Ligue 2 three times, won five Coupe de France titles, one Coupe de la Ligue title and eight Trophée des Champions. Though the club is a regular participant in the UEFA Champions League, they have only reached as far as the semi-finals, which was accomplished during the 2009–10 and 2019–20 seasons. Lyon has won the UEFA Intertoto Cup, achieving this honour in 1997.
Olympique Lyonnais women.
Olympique Lyonnais Féminin currently play in France's top division, Division 1 Féminine. The ladies team was set up in the 1970s as part of FC Lyon, but was attached to OL in the summer of 2004. They mostly play their home games at "Groupama OL Training Center", 200 metres from Parc Olympique Lyonnais, the main stadium.
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="990726" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990726" title="FC Sochaux-Montbéliard">
FC Sochaux-Montbéliard

Association football club in France
Football club
Football Club Sochaux-Montbéliard (; commonly referred to as FCSM or simply Sochaux) is a French association football club based in the city of Montbéliard. The club was founded in 1928 and currently plays in Championnat National, the third tier of French football, after having been administratively relegated from Ligue 2 in the 2022–23 season, despite a 9th place finish. Sochaux plays its home matches at the Stade Auguste Bonal, located within the city.
Sochaux was founded by Jean-Pierre Peugeot, a prominent member of the Peugeot family, and is one of the founding members of the first division of French football. The club has won both Ligue 1 and the Coupe de France twice and have also won the Coupe de la Ligue. Sochaux's last honour came in 2007 when the club, under the guidance of Alain Perrin, defeated favourites Marseille 5–4 on penalties in the 2007 Coupe de France Final. Sochaux's colours are gold and navy blue.
Sochaux is known for its youth academy, which has regularly finished in the top ten rankings of youth academies in France (fourth in 2010). The most successful team in the academy is the under-19 team, which has won the Coupe Gambardella twice, in 1973 and 2007. In 2010, Sochaux finished runners-up to Metz in the 2010 edition of the competition. The academy has produced several notable talents, such as Yannick Stopyra, El-Hadji Diouf, Jérémy Ménez, Bernard Genghini and Benoît Pedretti, among others. The club were a regular in the top flight, until relegation in 2014.
History.
Football Club Sochaux-Montbéliard was founded in 1928 under the name "Football Club Sochaux" by Jean-Pierre Peugeot, a director of Peugeot, a French car manufacturing company. Peugeot sought to create a football club for the leisure time of the company's workers. He installed Louis Maillard-Salin as the club's first president, and made Maurice Bailly the club's first manager. Bailly was also a member of the team. Sochaux played its first match on 2 September 1928 against the reserve team of local club "AS Montbéliard". The club was inserted into the lowest level of league football in the Franche-Comté region and played its first league match three weeks later winning 12–1.
Peugeot was among the first to advocate for the professionalisation of French football and, in 1929, went as far as to admit to paying his players, which was strictly forbidden during this time. The subsequent recruitment of several French internationals and players from abroad led to Sochaux gaining a stranglehold on the region easily disposing of local rivals "AS Montbéliard" and AS Valentigney. In June 1930, Montbéliard decided to merge with Sochaux to form the club that exists today. The following month, the National Council of the French Football Federation voted 128–20 in support of professionalism in French football. With Peugeot being a strong advocate for professionalism, Sochaux were among the first clubs to adopt the new statute and, subsequently, became professional. In the league's inaugural season, Sochaux finished 3rd in its group. The club's final position was later moved to 2nd after Antibes, the champions of the group, was disqualified from the league for suspected bribery.
In the 1934–35 season, Sochaux captured its first league title finishing one point ahead of Strasbourg. Led by Uruguayan manager Conrad Ross, as well as captain Étienne Mattler, known as "Le Lion de Belfort", and strikers Roger Courtois and Bernard Williams, Sochaux dominated the league losing only four times. Two seasons later, the same team, with the addition of goalkeeper Laurent Di Lorto and the Swiss duo of André Abegglen and Maxime Lehmann, Sochaux won its first Coupe de France title. The club faced league rivals Strasbourg in the final and defeated the Alsatians 2–1 courtesy of goals from Williams and the Argentine Miguel Angel Lauri. Ross finished his career at Sochaux by winning another league title in 1938. After the 1938–39 season, Ross and several players departed the club to play and manage abroad due to the onset of World War II. The non-deserters were, subsequently, called into action to fight with the French Army, which ultimately caused the club to limit its aspiring ambitions.
During war-time, in an effort to survive financially, Sochaux formed an interim merger with local rivals AS Valentigney. The club, known as "FC Sochaux-Valentigney", participated in the war-time championships from 1942 to 1944. Following the conclusion of the war, Sochaux dissolved the merger, turn professional again, and returned to its original name. The club, however, failed to get back to its form prior to the war and, subsequently, made the decision to forgo entering bidding wars for players, which was becoming the norm and, instead, focus on keeping the team's budget even. As a result, in the first season after the war, Sochaux suffered relegation after finishing in last place with only 15 points. Sochaux spent only one season in the second division and returned to Division 1 for the 1947–48 season. The club spent the next 13 seasons playing in Division 1 with its best finish coming during the 1952–53 season when the club finished runner-up to champions Stade Reims. In the same season, Sochaux won its first honour since 1938 after winning the Coupe Charles Drago. In 1959, the club returned to the Coupe de France final, however, the outcome was not in Sochaux's favour, with the club losing 3–0 to Le Havre in a replay after a 2–2 draw.
In the early 1960s, despite playing in Division 2, Sochaux won the Coupe Drago in back-to-back seasons. The club made its return to Division 1 in 1964, and remained in the league for over 20 years, regularly finishing in the top ten before falling down to Division 2 in the 1987–88 season. During Sochaux's 24-year run in the first division, the club played in European competitions four times. In the 1980–81 season, Sochaux surprised many by reaching the semi-finals of the UEFA Cup. In the round, the club was defeated by Dutch club AZ 4–3 on aggregate. The club's successful play during this stint was predominantly due to the creation of the club's academy in 1974, which paid immediate dividends. Player such as Bernard Genghini, Yannick Stopyra, Joël Bats and Philippe Anziani were among the inaugural graduates who were instrumental in Sochaux's domestic success.
After hovering between the first division and the second division in the 1990s, Sochaux returned to the first division, now called Ligue 1, at the start of the new millennium. The club surprised many by finishing in the top ten in its first three seasons back. Also included in that three-year run was an appearance in the Coupe de la Ligue final and, in the ensuing year, a league cup title. In the 2003 final, Sochaux, led by manager Guy Lacombe and academy graduates Pierre-Alain Frau, Jérémy Mathieu, and Benoît Pedretti, were defeated 4–1 by Monaco. In the following season, a more experienced Sochaux returned to the final, where the club faced Nantes. Sochaux defeated Nantes 5–4 on penalties to win its first major title since winning the Coupe Drago 40 years previously. It did not take the club another 40 years to claim its next title as Sochaux were surprise winners of the Coupe de France in the 2006–07 season after defeating Marseille on penalties. Marseille were heavy favourites heading into match, mainly due to its 4–2 thrashing of Sochaux just 12 days before. However, Sochaux, led by Alain Perrin, stunned the nation and claimed its first Coupe de France title since 1937.
In July 2015, Peugeot sold the team to Hong Kong company Ledus. In 2018 it was announced that Spanish club Alavés (whose owners had a stake in Ledus) was starting a partnership with Sochaux; however the agreement lasted only a few months, ending abruptly in December of the same year.
With Omar Daf as coach, FCSM win the last game of season against Grenoble Foot 38 and save his Ligue 2 place. Club finish 16th in Ligue 2 but is demoted to National by the DNCG (National Directorate of Management Control), for not having presented balanced accounts.
Chinese real estate group Nenking, who unofficially take the reins of the club, following the economic problems encountered by Tech Pro, inject money into the coffers to save him from relegation. Nenking also appoint Samuel Laurent to the position of general director.
In April 2020, the Football Club Sochaux-Montbéliard SASP (Société Anonyme Sportive Professionnelle) officially became the property of the Nenking Group. "This sale to the group whose founding president is Mr. Zhong Naixiong comes in accordance with the agreements previously made with Ledus" and Frankie Yau become president.
On 28 June 2023, the DNCG confirmed the administrative relegation of Sochaux to Championnat National due to their financial crisis.
Stadium.
Sochaux plays its home matches at the Stade Auguste Bonal in Montbéliard. The stadium was constructed in 1931 and opened on 11 November of that same year. The facility was previously known as "Stade de la Forge". In July 1945, the club changed the stadium's name to its current version. It is named after Auguste Bonal, the former sports director of the club, who after refusing to co-operate with the Germans during World War II, was murdered.
The Stade Auguste Bonal has undergone renovations twice: in 1973 and 1997. In 1997, the majority of the stadium was completely overhauled, and practically a new stadium was built. The stadium still hosted matches during the renovation period, but with a limited capacity. The renovation cost ₣114 million, and took nearly three years to complete. The "Nouveau Bonal" was officially inaugurated on 22 July 2000 in a Trophée des champions match between FC Nantes and AS Monaco. The stadium's current capacity is 20,005.
Honors and Records.
Honors.
The following table lists the honors of FC Sochaux-Montbéliard, updated as of January 1, 2010, in various official competitions at the national and international levels, as well as in youth competitions. In friendly tournaments, the club won the Coupe Peugeot in 1931 and was a finalist in the Trophée Joan Gamper in 1989.
 "As of 26 January 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable former players.
Below are the notable former players who have represented Sochaux in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1928. To appear in the section below, a player must have played in at least 200 official matches for the club.
"For a complete list of Sochaux players, see "
&lt;templatestyles src="Div col/styles.css"/&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="990753" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990753" title="AJ Auxerre">
AJ Auxerre

Football club based in Auxerre, France
Football club
Association de la Jeunesse Auxerroise (), commonly known as AJ Auxerre or simply Auxerre (), is a French professional football club based in the commune of Auxerre in Burgundy. The club was founded in 1905 and currently plays in Ligue 2, the second division of French football. Auxerre plays its home matches at the Stade l'Abbé-Deschamps, on the banks of the Yonne River. The team is managed by Christophe Pélissier and captained by defender Jubal Jr..
Auxerre was founded in 1905 and made its debut in the first division of French football in the 1980–81 season, remaining in the premier league until the 2011–12 season. The club has won the Ligue 1 title once, in the 1995–96 season. Two years prior, Auxerre achieved its first major honour by winning the Coupe de France in 1994. The club has since added three more Coupe de France titles, which ties the club for the fifth-best standing among teams who have won the trophy.
Auxerre has produced several notable players during its existence. The club has most notably served as a springboard for several prominent French football players such as Eric Cantona, Laurent Blanc, Stéphane Guivarc'h, Philippe Mexès, Basile Boli, and Djibril Cissé, among others, who all became French internationals, with Blanc playing on the teams that won the 1998 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 2000. Guivarc'h, Bernard Diomède and Lionel Charbonnier were the three footballers from Auxerre who were world champions in 1998. From 1961 to 2005, the club was predominantly coached by Guy Roux. This included an uninterrupted period when Roux was in charge for 36 years between 1964 and 2000.
History.
The club "Association de la Jeunesse Auxerroise" was founded in 1905, by the abbot Ernest Abbé Deschamps. The club success, becoming a force in the Catholic league F.G.S.P.F. In 1908, the club even reached the F.G.S.P.F. French Championship final, losing 8–1 however. At the end of the First World War, the club was expelled from its ground. Father Deschamps acquired several pieces of land along the Yonne on the Vaux road, which later formed the Abbé Deschamps Stadium.
Auxerre made its first steps in Division 1 on 24 July 1980 against Bastia in Toulon. Auxerre lost the match 2–0. On 20 November 1980, Andrzej Szarmach signed for Auxerre having received consent from the Polish Football Association. He started two days later at home against Lyon and scored the first of his ninety-four goals in Division 1. AJA's first season in Division 1 was remarkable for two particular performances: on 13 December 1980, at Parc des Princes against Paris Saint-Germain (3–2), and then on 7 April 1981, at Stade Marcel-Saupin against Nantes for a 1–0 win, notable as Nantes had not lost a home game for five years and 92 games (between 15 April 1976 and 7 April 1981). In the next two seasons, AJA finished fifteenth and eighth respectively.
During the 1983–84 season, AJA climbed for the first time onto the podium in finishing third. Patrice Garande finished top scorer with twenty-one goals. A few weeks later, Garande won the gold medal at the Olympics in Los Angeles with the French Olympic football team while Joël Bats and Jean-Marc Ferreri were part of the victorious French team at UEFA Euro 1984. That summer, Auxerre recruited Michel N'Gom. An international prospect, he left Paris Saint-Germain. During pre-season, he scored five goals in ten games. On the last weekend before the start of the season, he visited his former teammates in Paris. He died following a traffic accident on 12 August 1984. To pay tribute, one of the stands at Abbé Deschamps bears his name. The 1984–1985 season saw Auxerre in European competition for the first time in its history by participating in the UEFA Cup, albeit with an unfavourable first round draw with Sporting Clube de Portugal. On 19 September 1984 at Estádio José Alvalade, AJA took its bow in European football with a 2–0 defeat. The return leg took place on 3 October 1984. AJA managed to retrieve the two goal deficit with a double by Szarmach, but eventually succumbed with two goals in extra time. However, by virtue of the victory of Monaco in the Coupe de France, AJA also qualified for the UEFA Cup the year after.
The 1985 offseason saw Joël Bats join Paris Saint-Germain. Auxerre recruited Bruno Martini as his successor. In the UEFA Cup, AJA were drawn against Milan. In the first leg, Auxerre won 3–1. Both teams missed a penalty and Paolo Maldini made his debut in European competition. In the return match, AJA lost 3–0 and was therefore eliminated. Seventh in the league and quarter-finalist in the French cup, AJA did not manage a third straight season in Europe. Auxerre finished fourth in 1986–1987, and was once again eliminated in the first round of the UEFA Cup the following season with a 2–0 away defeat to Panathinaikos too much to overcome in the return leg (which Auxerre won 3–2). The 1988–89 season saw AJA finish fifth in the league and reach the semi-finals of the Coupe de France before elimination by Olympique de Marseille, the future winner of the event. With fifth place in the league, AJA made the UEFA Cup and there made its first decent run. During the preliminary round, AJA managed its first victory. Beaten 0–1 at home by Dinamo Zagreb, it registered 3–1 in Yugoslavia and qualified for the first round proper. Auxerre beat successively Albanians Apolonia Fier, Finns RoPS and Olympiacos of Greece before being eliminated in the quarterfinals by Fiorentina. In parallel with this, AJA managed sixth place in the league. During the summer of 1990, the AJA sold Basile Boli and recruited Enzo Scifo, Alain Roche and Zbigniew Kaczmarek. Auxerre finished in third place after leading the championship for two weeks.
In 1991–92, Auxerre was eliminated in the second round of the UEFA Cup by Liverpool and then finished fourth in Division 1. That summer, the AJA sold Alain Roche and Jean-Marc Ferreri while recruiting Frank Verlaat and Gérald Baticle. Auxerre then journeyed again into UEFA. Auxerre eliminated Lokomotiv Plovdiv and the newly formed F.C. Copenhagen. In the third round, AJA eliminated Standard Liège. In the quarterfinals, AJA faced Ajax, the defending champion and undefeated in the European Cup for two years. Before facing Ajax, Auxerre had suffered five consecutive league defeats. Auxerre managed a 4–2 home win. In the second leg Ajax could only manage a 1–0 win and so Auxerre had qualified for the semifinals, to face Borussia Dortmund. In the first leg in Germany, AJA lost 2–0. A fiercely contested second leg levelled the aggregate score, but Auxerre were finally eliminated on penalties.
While finishing sixth in the championship, Auxerre again qualified for the UEFA Cup after the VA-OM case. But unlike the epic run of the previous season, AJA was eliminated in the first round by Tenerife. AJA made progress in the league, with a third-place finish, but notably captured its first major trophy, the French cup. Having made it past the lower division teams in the early rounds, AJA eliminated Nantes in the semifinals before winning 3 goals to 0 at Parc des Princes in the final against Montpellier. The following season, Auxerre finished fourth in the league and was a quarter-finalist of the Cup Winners' Cup: Auxerre was eliminated by Arsenal in the Abbe-Deschamps (1–0) having achieved a 1–1 draw at Highbury.
During the 1995–96 season, the club won Division 1 for the first time in their history, and also won the Coupe de France.
On 13 May 2012, Auxerre's 32-year stay in the top division came to an end after a 3–0 away defeat at the hands of Marseille. The following season, Auxerre finished a disappointing ninth place along with a goal difference of −2. The next season was no better for AJA, after they finished a lowly 16th position. Although not resulting in promotion the 2014–15 Ligue 2 season was better for the Burgundy based side as they finished ninth in Ligue 2 and finishing runners-up in the 2015 Coupe de France final after losing to Paris Saint-Germain at the Stade de France in front of an attendance of 80,000. The 2018–19 season was Auxerre's seventh consecutive in the Ligue 2. In the 2020–21 Ligue 2 season, the Auxerrois would achieve their best finish in the second tier since their relegation with a 6th-place finish, although they were positioned within the top 5 required for at least the playoffs at the end of 17 of the 38 game weeks. In the 2021–22 Ligue 2 season, AJA were finally promoted back to Ligue 1 after 10 years, after a penalty shoot-out win against Saint-Etienne in the Ligue1 promotion/relegation play-offs.
After just one season in Ligue 1, Auxerre were relegated back to Ligue 2 after losing on the final day against RC Lens. Auxerre were one point clear of FC Nantes but with Nantes securing a victory over already relegated Angers SCO it meant Auxerre were the final team relegated.
 "As of 24 January 2024"
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Out on loan.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
Notable players.
Below is the starting 11 of historic football players who have played at Auxerre in league and international competition since the club's foundation in 1905 as voted by the club's supporters.
Statistics.
Latest seasons.
Color:
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc><doc id="990780" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=990780" title="LB Châteauroux">
LB Châteauroux

Football club
La Berrichonne de Châteauroux (), commonly referred to as La Berrichonne or simply Châteauroux, is a French association football club based in Châteauroux. The football team is a part of a sports club that consists of several other sports and was founded in 1916. The team currently plays in the Championnat National, the third division of French football. The club has played only one season in Division 1; the 1997–98 season.
In 2004, Châteauroux reached the final of the 2003–04 Coupe de France. The team was defeated 1–0 by Paris Saint-Germain, but still qualified for the following season's UEFA Cup because Paris Saint-Germain finished second in the first division. Châteauroux lost in the first round to Belgian club Club Brugge.
Châteauroux plays its home fixtures at the 17,173 capacity Stade Gaston Petit in front of crowds averaging between 6,000 and 7,000. Visitors are directed to one end of the Credit Agricole stand. The team strip is a deep red and blue with a vertical striped shirt and blue shorts. Châteauroux's kit manufacturer is Nike.
 "As of 31 January 2024."
Players.
Current squad.
&lt;templatestyles src="Template:Football squad player/styles.css" /&gt;
References.
&lt;templatestyles src="Reflist/styles.css" /&gt;

</doc>